Westinghouse Announces Department of Energy Partnership to Jumpstart Large-Scale Nuclear Supply Chain
Training & Resources
Explore Solutions
Supplier
Contact Us
Supplier
Customer Training
Corporate Home
Media Relations
AP1000® Reactor Media Kit
In the Headlines
Insights
News Releases
Home > News Releases
Share
Categories
News Releases (209)
AP1000 (70)
Nuclear Fuel (41)
General Topics (28)
Technology & Innovation (28)
AP300 (22)
Microreactor (12)
Our People & History (9)
Energy Systems (3)
Operating Plants (2)
Energy Storage (1)
Safety, Reliability & Sustainability (1)
Sign Up for News
Contact Us
Westinghouse Announces Department of Energy Partnership to Jumpstart Large-Scale Nuclear Supply Chain
June 23, 2026
by Westinghouse Electric Company
Categories:
AP1000 ,
News Releases
Washington, D.C., June 23, 2026 – Westinghouse Electric Company announced today its intention to partner with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Energy Dominance Financing (EDF) on the American Nuclear Supply Chain Loans. The program will enable investment in nuclear supply chains and accelerate deployment of new nuclear generation at scale in the United States.
EDF has announced a conditional commitment of $17.5B in obligated funds to finance the purchase of long-lead time items (LLI) for up to 10 Westinghouse AP1000® units, the only fully designed and licensed advanced commercial reactor operating in the United States today. Advance purchase of LLI is expected to accelerate project deployment timelines by up to three years and create significant supply chain efficiencies.
“America has always won when it thinks big and builds for the future. If we want to lead in artificial intelligence, advanced manufacturing, and the industries that will define the next century – we need more American baseload energy. This means building industrialized nuclear power at fleet scale, creating long-term economic growth, thousands of high-quality jobs , strengthening supply chains and revitalizing communities,” said Westinghouse CEO Dan Sumner. “We thank the Administration and the Department of Energy for their commitment and leadership on this strategic initiative.”
Westinghouse will partner with up to five eligible utilities or energy companies to procure LLI for projects with two reactors each and has signed Letters of Intent with seven potential partners with identified sites.
While this conditional commitment from EDF indicates the Department’s intent to provide a loan to finance the projects, DOE and Westinghouse must satisfy certain technical, legal, environmental, and financial conditions before the Department enters into definitive financing documents and funds the loan. Additional details are available here , here and here .
The advanced AP1000 reactor is the only operating Generation III+ reactor with fully passive safety systems, modular construction design and the smallest footprint per MWe on the market. There are six AP1000 reactors currently setting operational performance and availability records worldwide with 14 additional reactors under construction and five more under contract. The AP1000 technology has been selected for nuclear energy programs in Poland, Ukraine and Bulgaria, and is also under consideration at multiple other sites in Europe, the Middle East and North America.
About
Innovation
Energy Systems
Nuclear Fuel
Operating Plants
Careers
©2026 Westinghouse Electric Company LLC. All rights reserved. | Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Cookie Notice