Holtec and EDF submit proposal to deploy SMR-300 at Cottam, Nottinghamshire -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
North Anna power plant seeks ESP renewal
August 6, 2026, 12:32PM
Industry Update—August 2026
August 6, 2026, 9:31AM
Ontario invests in medical radioisotope production at McMaster
August 6, 2026, 7:03AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Westinghouse updates: AP1000 potential, IPO, Amentum partnership
August 5, 2026, 12:33PM
Knoxville’s nuclear workshop opens with a full house and a long to-do list
August 5, 2026, 10:10AM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Uranium prices steady as EIA releases annual market report
August 5, 2026, 7:12AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
International
Holtec and EDF submit proposal to deploy SMR-300 at Cottam, Nottinghamshire
June 29, 2026, 7:13AM
Nuclear News
Holtec president Rick Springman (left) and EDF CFO Rob Guyler pose with the signed joint proposal for deployment of Holtec’s SMR-300 at Cottam. (Photo: Holtec)
Jupiter, Fla.–headquartered Holtec International has announced that it and London-based EDF Energy have jointly submitted a proposal to the government of the United Kingdom for deployment of Holtec’s SMR-300 small modular reactors at Cottam, Nottinghamshire. Holtec International and EDF Energy have established a joint venture to advance development of the proposed SMR project at the site in England’s East Midlands, which hosts a gas-fired power plant and previously hosted a coal plant.
Details: The companies are proposing that as many as four SMR-300 units be deployed at the Cottam site, generating approximately 1.3 GW of electricity. The project would use the existing grid infrastructure from the old coal station, repurposed to support the advanced reactors.
The venture’s development stands to benefit from the U.K. government’s Advanced Nuclear Framework , which is designed to “support the development, commercialization, and deployment of private innovative nuclear projects within the UK energy system.”
Holtec points out that it and EDF “are advancing a market-led approach to deliver new nuclear generation by leveraging private investment, proven technology, existing infrastructure, and decades of UK operational experience.”
Long-standing partnership: Holtec and EDF have a history of corporate cooperation spanning more than three decades. At last week’s signing of the joint SMR proposal with EDF Chief Financial Officer Rob Guyler, Holtec President Rick Springman observed, “Our long-standing partnership with EDF, combined with the opportunity created by the UK’s Advanced Nuclear Framework, provides a strong foundation for advancing SMR-300 deployment at Cottam. This submission represents an important milestone for the project and for advanced nuclear energy in Great Britain. Holtec plans to substantially expand its presence in the UK with a significantly larger operation center and is evaluating a manufacturing plant to build nuclear equipment in the country.”
EDF UK Chief Executive Officer Simone Rossi added, “We are delighted to be working with Holtec International on the development of small modular reactors in the UK. The Cottam project supports the UK government’s ambition to expand nuclear capacity and will facilitate significant re-development of a region that has given so much to the UK through its coal heritage.”
Second-of-a-kind: Holtec recently completed the U.K. government’s Generic Design Assessment process for the SMR-300—the government’s verification of the safety, security, and environmental adequacy of the SMR-300 advanced reactors. This lays the regulatory foundation to build the units at the Cottam site, which would represent the second deployment of the SMR-300.
Holtec is planning the first deployment of the SMR-300—the twin “Pioneer” units—at its Palisades Energy site in Michigan, in a joint venture with Hyundai Engineering & Construction. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is currently preparing an environmental impact statement for these first-of-a-kind units.
Tags:
cottam edf energy holtec international nottinghamshire small modular reactors smr-300 united kingdom
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Nuclear News
In the past week, Holtec has made two significant announcements: the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has approved its license termination plan (LTP) for Oyster Creek nuclear power plant, and the...
GAO report urges DOE-EM to learn from other countries
August 3, 2026, 10:51AM
Nuclear News
Several countries, including Canada, France, and the United Kingdom, recently have taken steps to accelerate the cleanup of nuclear waste. In a new report, the U.S. Government Accountability...
Sizewell B gets 20-year life extension; SMR agreements signed around the world
July 13, 2026, 10:48AM
Nuclear News
Sizewell B, on the Suffolk coast of England, has been granted a 20-year life extension. The nuclear power plant, which began operating in 1995, will now remain in operation until 2055....
Polish company SGE hopes to deploy 14 BWRX-300 reactors in U.K.
July 7, 2026, 7:14AM
Nuclear News
Synthos Green Energy, a development and investment company headquartered in Warsaw, Poland, has announced a proposal to deploy 14 GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear Energy BWRX-300 small modular...
Terrestrial Energy and Texas A&M reach agreement on reactor siting
June 23, 2026, 7:06AM
Nuclear News
Terrestrial Energy has signed ground lease and research agreements with the Texas A&M University System (TAMUS) to exclusively use about 77 acres of land at the Texas A&M–RELLIS...
NRC launches environmental review of Holtec’s new-build plans for Palisades
June 16, 2026, 3:04PM
Nuclear News
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is set to prepare an environmental impact statement for its review of Holtec International’s application to site two Holtec SMR-300 reactors at the...
Blue Castle project to be revived as SMR facility
June 1, 2026, 12:09PM
Nuclear News
The dormant Blue Castle nuclear power plant project in Utah has resurfaced, only this time as a proposed small modular reactor facility.Blue Castle Holdings and Fulcrum Point...
International roundup: May highlights from Europe, Africa
May 26, 2026, 9:29AM
Nuclear News
SMR-300 deployments, power plant names, trade missions, agreements between neighboring countries, and renewed interest in nuclear energy are among the notable developments that occurred...
Fusion consortium established to advance private-sector fusion
May 7, 2026, 7:45AM
Nuclear News
Three companies have come together to form the U.K. Infinity Fusion Consortium with the objective of developing the first private sector–led fusion power plant in the United Kingdom using...
Holtec hits milestones in Palisades restart, new reactor projects
April 2, 2026, 7:12AM
Nuclear News
The restart of Palisades nuclear power plant in Covert, Mich., has hit a milestone with the passivation of its primary system, plant owner Holtec International announced Monday, even as a firm...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media