The New Atomic Age | Valar Atomics
Technology Ward 250 Mission Docs Join our Team
The New Atomic Age
Valar Atomics is scaling nuclear energy for heavy industrial power and clean hydrocarbon fuel production.
Contact us
Nuclear needs scale.
Since its invention, nuclear has been a bespoke, project-based industry, constrained by the grid. To realize the promise of the nuclear age, we need to scale beyond the grid.
A New Model for Nuclear
To unlock economies of scale, we're building hundreds of nuclear reactors on Valar Atomics gigasites. We focus on grid-independent products: hydrogen, data center power, heavy industrial power, and clean hydrocarbon fuels.
Our Technology
Proven Technology
Our reactor uses high-temperature gas reactor (HTGR) design principles. This architecture has an unmatched safety profile and proliferation resistance when paired with TRISO fuel.
Fuel Triso
Moderator Graphite
Coolant Helium
Products
Our high volume, grid-independent products create the cashflow to drive manufacturing excellence and operational scale. With scale, nuclear will become the cheapest and most reliable source of energy in the world.
Hydrogen
When paired with our sulfur-iodine cycle process, our reactors produce cheap and abundant hydrogen.
Data Center Power
AI models will require over 200 terawatt hours of additional grid power by 2030. Only nuclear can meet the demand.
Industrial Power
Gigasites will be home to diverse location-agnostic industrial needs, divorcing green steel and bauxite electrolysis from the traditional grid model.
Clean Fuel
Combining our cheap hydrogen with captured CO2 from coal/natural gas plants, DAC, and other point capture sources, we'll create a broad spectrum of hydrocarbons via a modified Fischer-Tropsch process.
Ward 250
Four executive orders gave Valar a mandate to test our reactor. We’re partnering with the Department of Energy, San Rafael Energy Research Center and the State of Utah to go live before America’s 250th birthday on July 4th, 2026.
Learn More
Unlocking Abundant Energy
Western civilization was built on abundant energy. Coal powered the Industrial Revolution, oil fueled global commerce, and together, they built the modern world.
Our future—from AI to interplanetary colonization—requires energy at an unprecedented scale and density. This is the dawn of a new atomic age.
Join our mission
Media and Press
Valar Atomics' Isaiah Taylor: Solving AI's energy crisis with Nuclear Gigasites
Read more
Valar Atomics hosts community open house, giving a public glimpse at its Ward-250 test reactor
Read more
Valar Atomics welcomes community for reactor facility open house
Read more
Emery County Commission approves letter of support for Valar Atomics as Ward250 reactor arrives in the Castle Country
Read more
US military airlifts small reactor as Trump pushes to quickly deploy nuclear power
Read more
DoE, Pentagon Transport Reactor, Wright Says Three Small Reactors Running By July 4
Read more
'Next-generation' nuclear reactor airlifted across three US states after Trump's executive order
Read more
Pentagon Airlifts Microreactor to Utah in First C-17 Nuclear Transport
Read more
On microreactor milestones, the Colorado River, and 'crazy' Europe
Read more
Show More
Build with us
Proudly built in America
© 2025 Valar Atomics
Join the Team
Use our energy
Contact us
Technology Mission Docs
Press
All Rights Reserved
Proudly built in America