NANO Nuclear Q1 2026 results; cash $577M after raise | NNE Stock News
STOCK TITAN
Login
Sign up
Login
Sign up
0
NEWS FEED
Stock News Live
Stock News Today
Trending News
AI news
FDA Approvals
Clinical Trials
Crypto News
Merger & Acquisitions
Earnings
Offerings
IPO News
Stock Splits
Top News - Gainers
Top News - Losers
SEC FILINGS
SEC Filings Live
SEC Filings Today
Form 4 - Insider Trading
8-K - Material Events
10-K - Annual Reports
10-Q - Quarterly Reports
DEF 14A - Proxy Statements
S-1 - IPO Registration
S-3 - Shelf Registration
STOCKS
All Stock Themes
AI Stocks
Crypto Stocks
Oil & Gas
Defense & Military
Space & Satellite
Financials
Stock Market Heatmap
Sector Performance
Theme Performance
All Stock Rankings
Stock Movers Today
Largest Companies by Market Cap
Highest Dividend Yields
Best Performing Stocks - 52 Week
Best Performing Stocks - 2026
Best Performing Stocks - August 2026
Short Interest Increases
Short Interest Decreases
TOOLS
Dashboard Platinum
Argus Momentum Scanner
Trading Halt Tracker
News Keywords Impact Gold
Investment Growth Calculator
Average Stock Price Calculator
Profit & Loss Calculator
Dividend Yield Calculator
Retirement Savings Calculator
FIRE Calculator
DCA Calculator
Savings Goal Calculator
Position Size Calculator
Stock Return Calculator
Covered Call Calculator
Cash-Secured Put Calculator
View All 18 Tools →
ARTICLES
Latest Articles
Educational
Guides
Analysis
Announcements
Glossary
PRICING
Home
News
NNE
NANO Nuclear Reports Q1 FY 2026 Financial Results and Provides Business Update
Trending News
RDW
Redwire’s SpaceMD Announces its First Commercial Mission on Space...
MGRX
Mangoceuticals’ Merger Partner, Nuclea Energy Inc., Signs MOU wit...
ENSC
Ensysce Biosciences Announces Acquisition of Cy Biopharma and up ...
OKLO
Oklo's Groves Reactor Achieves First Criticality in Under a Year
CELZ
Creative Medical Technology Holdings, Inc. Receives Notice of All...
ASTS
AST SpaceMobile Accelerates Presence Across Europe with Leading M...
RDW
Redwire’s SpaceMD Announces its First Commercial Mission on Space...
MGRX
Mangoceuticals’ Merger Partner, Nuclea Energy Inc., Signs MOU wit...
ENSC
Ensysce Biosciences Announces Acquisition of Cy Biopharma and up ...
OKLO
Oklo's Groves Reactor Achieves First Criticality in Under a Year
CELZ
Creative Medical Technology Holdings, Inc. Receives Notice of All...
ASTS
AST SpaceMobile Accelerates Presence Across Europe with Leading M...
Overview
Financials
News
SEC Filings
NANO Nuclear Reports Q1 FY 2026 Financial Results and Provides Business Update
Rhea-AI Impact
(High)
Rhea-AI Sentiment
(Positive)
Tags
earnings
Rhea-AI Summary
English
Arabic
French
German
Italian
Korean
Spanish
NANO Nuclear (NASDAQ: NNE) reported Q1 FY2026 results and a business update on Feb 17, 2026. Key facts: $577.5M cash and cash equivalents at Dec 31, 2025; completed an oversubscribed $400M private placement (net proceeds ~ $379M ); operating cash used $4.0M ; investing cash used $3.1M .
Progress includes advancing the KRONOS MMR toward U.S. and Canadian licensing, a U. of I. prototype MOU, a $6.8M REV Illinois incentive, supply‑chain and fuel partnerships, and target submission of a U.S. construction permit with prototype aiming mid‑to‑late 2027.
Loading...
Loading translation...
Positive
Cash balance of $577.5M at Dec 31, 2025
Oversubscribed $400M private placement (net proceeds ~$379M)
$6.8M REV Illinois incentive and commitment to create at least 50 jobs
Targeting U.S. construction permit submission to begin prototype by mid‑to‑late 2027
Negative
Operating activities used $4.0M in Q1 FY2026 reflecting increased R&D and operations
Investing activities used $3.1M including payments for new Oak Brook engineering facility
News Market Reaction &ndash; NNE
-0.63%
2 alerts
-0.63%
Session close to close
$1.34B
Market Cap
0.0x
Rel. Volume
In the Feb 18 session, NNE declined 0.63% , reflecting a mild negative market reaction.
Our momentum scanner triggered 2 alerts that day, indicating moderate trading interest and price volatility.
Data tracked by StockTitan Argus on the day of publication.
Market Context
This announcement details NANO Nuclear’s Q1 FY 2026 results, highlighting a cash position of $577.5M...
Analysis
This announcement details NANO Nuclear’s Q1 FY 2026 results, highlighting a cash position of $577.5M , increased operating spending to advance KRONOS and fuel initiatives, and progress toward U.S. and Canadian licensing plus new commercial MOUs. Historically, earnings updates have produced modest average price moves of about -0.12% . Investors may focus on how the large cash balance, significant $900,000,000 shelf capacity, and ongoing insider activity balance against long-dated deployment timelines and rising development expenses.
Key Figures
Cash & equivalents: $577.5M
Prior cash: $203.3M
Net loss: $6.5M
+5 more
8 metrics
Cash & equivalents
$577.5M
As of December 31, 2025
Prior cash
$203.3M
As of September 30, 2025
Net loss
$6.5M
Quarter ended December 31, 2025
Operating cash outflow
$4.0M
Quarter ended December 31, 2025
Net cash from financing
$381.3M
Quarter ended December 31, 2025
Private placement gross
$400M
October 2025 equity financing
REV Illinois incentive
$6.8M
State of Illinois incentive award
Shelf registration size
$900,000,000
Amended S-3/A shelf capacity
Previous Earnings Reports
4 past events · Latest: Dec 18 (Positive)
Same Type
Pattern
4 events
Date
Event
Sentiment
24h Move
Catalyst
Dec 18
Full-year results
Positive
+0.8%
Fiscal 2025 results with major cash build and KRONOS licensing progress.
Aug 14
Quarterly results
Positive
+2.0%
Q3 2025 update showing strong financing, higher cash, and KRONOS advances.
May 16
Quarterly results
Positive
+4.5%
Q2 2025 results with KRONOS/LOKI acquisition and major capital raise.
Dec 30
Full-year results
Positive
-7.8%
FY 2024 results with substantial capital raised and index inclusion.
24h Move is the share-price change in the day after each event; other market factors may also have contributed.
Pattern Detected
Earnings and business updates have historically produced relatively small average moves ( -0.12% ), with mostly positive reactions but one notable negative selloff.
Recent Company History
Over the last several quarters, NANO Nuclear’s earnings and business updates have consistently highlighted progress on its KRONOS and other microreactor programs while scaling its balance sheet. Prior releases reported cash building from $120M+ in 2024 to $210.2M in Q3 2025 and about $580M after the October 2025 private placement, alongside significant operating and investing cash use. Today’s Q1 FY 2026 update extends that trajectory, emphasizing a strengthened cash position, active licensing work, and expanding commercial and strategic pipelines.
Key Terms
microreactor, high-temperature gas-cooled reactor, construction permit application, pre-licensing process, +4 more
8 terms
microreactor
technical
"a leading advanced nuclear micro modular reactor and technology company"
A microreactor is a very small, factory-built nuclear power unit designed to produce electricity and heat for a single site or a small grid, much like a compact, highly engineered backup generator for towns, mines, ships or remote industrial sites. Investors care because microreactors promise faster construction, lower upfront cost and flexible deployment compared with large plants, while offering revenue potential alongside regulatory, safety and long-term maintenance risks.
high-temperature gas-cooled reactor
technical
"a high-TRL, high-temperature gas-cooled reactor design backed by decades"
A high-temperature gas-cooled reactor is a type of nuclear power plant that uses a gas (usually helium) to carry heat from a ceramic-based fuel core operating at much higher temperatures than conventional reactors. For investors, that higher-temperature design can mean greater efficiency, the ability to drive industrial processes (like hydrogen or steam production) in addition to electricity, and different safety and cost profiles that affect project economics, regulatory risk and market opportunities.
construction permit application
regulatory
"upon submission of a planned construction permit application to the U.S. NRC"
A construction permit application is the formal request a company files with local or regional authorities to get official permission to build, modify, or demolish a physical structure. For investors it matters because approval affects project timing, costs and legal risk—like needing a driver’s license before hitting the road, a permit must be granted before work can proceed, and delays or denials can change expected revenue, asset value and cash flow.
pre-licensing process
regulatory
"entered the Phase 1 pre-licensing process with the Canadian Nuclear"
A pre-licensing process is the set of steps a company must complete before a regulator grants official permission to sell a product or operate a facility, including submitting paperwork, passing inspections, and demonstrating safety and quality. For investors it signals how close a product or business is to generating revenue and highlights timing, cost and regulatory risk—think of it like final safety checks and paperwork before a business can legally open its doors to customers.
TRISO
technical
"TRISO vendors for the necessary nuclear fuel"
Triso is a type of nuclear fuel made of tiny kernels of fissile material encased in multiple microscopic layers of ceramic and carbon, creating a miniature, tough containment system for radioactive material. For investors, triso matters because it enables reactors to run hotter and more efficiently with lower risk of fuel failure—think of it as an armored seed that helps new reactor designs be safer and more commercially attractive, affecting technology adoption, regulatory approval, and company valuations.
Brayton cycle
technical
"via a supercritical CO2 Brayton cycle, coolant temps of 500–950°C"
A Brayton cycle is the thermodynamic process used by gas turbines and jet engines that produces power by continuously compressing air, adding heat at nearly constant pressure (by burning fuel), and expanding the hot gases through a turbine to generate work. Investors care because the cycle determines a plant or engine’s fuel efficiency, operating costs and emissions—like knowing a car’s miles-per-gallon—factors that affect profitability, capital value and regulatory risk.
Memorandum of Understanding
regulatory
"Signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Ameresco to explore deployment"
A memorandum of understanding (MOU) is a formal agreement between two or more parties that outlines their shared intentions and plans to work together. It acts like a handshake in writing, clarifying each side’s roles and expectations before any official contract is signed. For investors, an MOU signals that parties are serious about collaboration, which can influence future business opportunities and potential growth.
at-the-market
financial
"includes a $400,000,000 at-the-market common stock program"
&#34;At-the-market&#34; is a method for companies to sell new shares of stock directly into the open market over time, rather than all at once. It allows companies to raise money gradually, similar to selling slices of a pie instead of the entire pie at once, which can help manage the sale's impact on the stock price. This approach gives investors a steady supply of shares while providing companies with flexible funding options.
AI-generated analysis. How Rhea-AI works . Not financial advice.
See more from StockTitan in Google Search and AI answers.
Adds StockTitan as a preferred source &middot; opens Google
Add on Google
Not now
02/17/2026 - 04:30 PM
Management to hold webcast today at 5:00 pm Eastern
New York, N.Y., Feb. 17, 2026 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NASDAQ: NNE ) (“NANO Nuclear” or “the Company”) , a leading advanced nuclear micro modular reactor and technology company focused on developing clean energy solutions, today reported its first quarter fiscal year 2026 financial results and provided a business update.
Figure 1 - NANO Nuclear Reports Q1 FY 2026 Financial Results and Provides Business Update
During its first fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2025, and subsequently, NANO Nuclear continued to make tangible progress as it strives to be the leading advanced nuclear microreactor developer in North America. Key achievements included:
Further advancement of its lead reactor program, the KRONOS MMR TM system toward initiation of the formal licensing process and prototype construction in the U.S. and Canada.
Progress in discussions regarding the KRONOS MMR TM system with a growing pipeline of potential commercial customers and strategic partners in the U.S. and globally.
Continuing advancement of commercial vertical integration efforts to address key bottlenecks within the nuclear fuel supply chain, a key aspect of NANO Nuclear’s strategy that differentiates it from its competitors.
Increasing its quarter end cash balance to approximately $578 million dollars following a successful $400 million dollar oversubscribed private placement in October 2025, which included participation from prominent institutional investors, as well as prudently deploying its capital to generate long-term value for shareholders.
Numerous additions to its engineering, technical and regulatory teams of personnel with meaningful industry experience.
“NANO Nuclear continues to differentiate itself as a microreactor developer advancing our KRONOS MMR system, a high-TRL, high-temperature gas-cooled reactor design backed by decades of operating history and meaningful prior capital investment, which we believe can significantly de-risk future construction, licensing and commercial deployment. We pair this foundation with a focus on vertical integration across critical aspects of the nuclear fuel supply chain, which differentiates us from our competition and positions us to expedite reactor deployment, benefit from growth in the industry, and enhance the long-term economics of our reactors,” said Jay Yu, Founder and Chairman of NANO Nuclear .
“Our progress during the first quarter reflects continued execution— advancing KRONOS toward licensing and construction, expanding commercial traction, further securing the nuclear fuel supply chain, and maintaining our strong financial position to support execution of our strategy. Our strong foundation positions us well to achieve our near and long-term goals. As we look ahead to the remainder of 2026, we are excited for the potential to announce several milestones and catalysts we believe provide the opportunity to create meaningful shareholder value,” concluded Mr. Yu.
Financial Results for Three Months Ended December 31, 2025
Cash and Cash Equivalents
NANO Nuclear had cash and cash equivalents of $577.5 million as of December 31, 2025 , up from $203.3 million on September 30, 2025, following an October 2025 private placement providing net proceeds of approximately $379 million .
Operating Activities
$4.0 million used in operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2025, a slight increase from the prior year comparable period, primarily reflecting an increase in operations and research and development expenses to support advancement of our KRONOS MMR TM system and additional strategic growth opportunities.
Investing Activities
$3.1 million used in investing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2025, including payments for the Company’s new Oak Brook, Illinois engineering facility.
Financing Activities
$381.3 million in net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended December 31, 2025.
Q1 2026 Key Highlights and Recent Developments
KRONOS MMR ™ Progressing Toward Formal Licensing & Construction in U.S. & Canada
Progress toward initiating the formal licensing process in the U.S. upon submission of a planned construction permit application to the U.S. NRC in the coming months. Completed site characterization and drilling work with AECOM on the campus of the University of Illinois (U. of I), with the results currently being incorporated into a planned construction permit application.
Signed an MOU with the U. of I. Board of Trustees outlining the next steps for the design, construction, ownership and operation of a prototype KRONOS MMR™ system on campus as a research reactor, expanding on the Company’s existing definitive sponsored research agreement between the Company and the U. of I.
Awarded $6.8 million REV Illinois incentive from the State of Illinois, supporting the Company in establishing operations in the state and creating at least 50 new full-time jobs.
Progress toward initiation of formal licensing activities of the KRONOS MMR™ system in Canada, where the KRONOS MMR™ system was the first microreactor to have entered the Phase 1 pre-licensing process with the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (CNSC). Acquisition of Global First Power (now rebranded as True North Nuclear ) provides NANO Nuclear with Canadian licensing application for the KRONOS MMR™ demonstration project in Chalk River, Ontario.
Advancing discussions with numerous potential supply chain partners for key components and long lead items, including discussions around reactor pressure vessel capacity, fuel enrichment and fabrication, graphite supply, and other key components.
Advancing discussions with a commercial enrichment provider and TRISO vendors for the necessary nuclear fuel.
Growing Pipeline of Commercial Opportunities & Key Strategic Engagements
Signed a Feasibility Study agreement with BaRupOn to evaluate the feasibility of KRONOS MMR ™ reactors providing up to 1 GW of power to BaRupOn’s AI Data Center and Manufacturing Campus in development.
Growing pipeline of opportunities with potential AI data center, industrial and military related customers, demonstrating growing excitement around the value proposition of the KRONOS MMR™ system.
Growing interest from reputable potential strategic partners, including established companies with decades of experience with large-scale energy infrastructure projects or large-scale industrial projects. Signed MOU with DS Dansuk to explore localization, manufacturing, and deployment of KRONOS MMR TM systems in South Korea and the broader Asia region.
Signed MOU with Ameresco to explore deployment of the KRONOS MMR TM system integrating with their EPC capabilities on federal and commercial sites.
Expanding Vertical Integration of Key Aspects of Nuclear Fuel Supply Chain
Progress toward expanding our nuclear fuel supply chain capabilities through partnerships and acquisition opportunities in areas such as uranium conversion and fuel transportation.
Strategic affiliate LIS Technologies (LIST), the only U.S. origin and patented technology for laser uranium enrichment, received a Key Radioactive Material License for its Tennessee demonstration facility, while also announcing plans to invest $1.38 billion over time to build a commercial laser enrichment facility in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. At the same time, LIST announced its $8M acquisition of a 206-acre Duct Island located at the historic K-25 site and now rebranded as “LIST Island” alongside Project “F.U.E.L.” (Future Uranium Enrichment with Lasers) featuring its novel laser uranium enrichment technology.
Well-Capitalized to Execute Strategy with Growing Support from Prominent Institutional Investors
Increased cash balance to $577.5 million following a successful oversubscribed $400 million October 2025 private placement, which provided net proceeds of approximately $379 million . Private placement included strong support from growing number of prominent institutional investors.
NANO Nuclear was added to the Morgan Stanley National Security index, further expanding the company’s visibility among thematic and institutional investors.
2026 an Important Year with Several Potential Milestones & Catalysts
Targeting submission of a construction permit application to the NRC in the coming months to formally initiate the licensing process in the U.S, providing the opportunity to begin construction of our full scale protype at the U. of I. by mid-to-late 2027.
Potential for several announcements demonstrating growing commercial interest in our KRONOS MMR TM system.
Potential for announcements related to partnerships and acquisitions around key aspects of the nuclear fuel supply chain.
Working to secure strategic partnerships aimed at accelerating and de-risking licensing, construction, financing, and large-scale deployment of its reactors and expanding commercial opportunities globally.
“NANO Nuclear had a strong start to fiscal year 2026 by achieving several key milestones tied to the advancement of our KRONOS MMR TM system, while also expanding commercial and strategic engagements tied to our microreactors and the nuclear fuel supply chain” said James Walker, Chief Executive Officer of NANO Nuclear . “We believe our growing pipeline of commercial and strategic opportunities is being driven by the KRONOS MMR system’s compelling value proposition, which includes a superior safety profile we expect to enable a favorable footprint, co-location and the ability to provide reliable off-grid or behind the meter power. We expect each of these attributes to become increasingly valuable in the coming years as electricity demand tied to AI data centers, electrification, and industrial reshoring expands faster than new generation and transmission can be delivered, creating rising concerns around power availability, grid expansion, and energy affordability. As a microreactor, our KRONOS MMR system also has a differentiated deployment model enabled by its modular architecture and compatibility with factory fabrication and standardized production, which we believe create the opportunity to capture meaningful economies of scale in the future. We remain confident NANO Nuclear remains well-positioned to create value across the broader advanced nuclear ecosystem, beginning with our flagship KRONOS MMR TM and extending to key areas of the nuclear fuel cycle.”
NANO Nuclear management will hold a webcast today at 5:00 pm Eastern to discuss the Company’s results and future plans.
Event: NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. Q1 FY 2026 Business Update Webcast
Date: Tuesday, February 17, 2026
Time: 5:00 p.m. ET
Live Call: 1-877-269-7756 (U.S. Toll Free) or 1-201-689-7817 (International)
Webcast: https://ir.nanonuclearenergy.com/news-events/events
A replay of the webcast will be made available on NANO Nuclear’s website beginning shortly after the call this evening.
About NANO Nuclear Energy, Inc.
NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NASDAQ: NNE ) is a North American advanced technology-driven nuclear energy company seeking to become a commercially focused, diversified, and vertically integrated company across five business lines: (i) cutting edge portable and other microreactor technologies, (ii) nuclear fuel fabrication, (iii) nuclear fuel transportation, (iv) nuclear applications for space and (v) nuclear industry consulting services. NANO Nuclear believes it is the first portable nuclear microreactor company to be listed publicly in the U.S.
Led by a world-class nuclear engineering team, NANO Nuclear’s reactor products in development include patented KRONOS MMR™ Energy System , a stationary high-temperature gas-cooled reactor that is in construction permit pre-application engagement U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) in collaboration with University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, “ZEUS” , a portable solid core battery reactor, and the space focused, portable LOKI MMR™ , each representing advanced developments in clean energy solutions that are portable, on-demand capable, advanced nuclear microreactors.
Advanced Fuel Transportation Inc. (AFT) , a NANO Nuclear subsidiary, is led by former executives from the largest transportation company in the world aiming to build a North American transportation company that will provide commercial quantities of HALEU fuel to small modular reactors, microreactor companies, national laboratories, military, and DOE programs. Through NANO Nuclear, AFT is the exclusive licensee of a patented high-capacity HALEU fuel transportation basket developed by three major U.S. national nuclear laboratories and funded by the Department of Energy. Assuming development and commercialization, AFT is expected to form part of the only vertically integrated nuclear fuel business of its kind in North America.
HALEU Energy Fuel Inc. (HEF) , a NANO Nuclear subsidiary, is focusing on the future development of a domestic source for a High-Assay, Low-Enriched Uranium (HALEU) fuel fabrication pipeline for NANO Nuclear’s own microreactors as well as the broader advanced nuclear reactor industry.
NANO Nuclear Space Inc. (NNS) , a NANO Nuclear subsidiary, is exploring the potential commercial applications of NANO Nuclear’s developing micronuclear reactor technology in space. NNS is focusing on applications such as the LOKI MMR™ system and other power systems for extraterrestrial projects and human sustaining environments, and potentially propulsion technology for long haul space missions. NNS’ initial focus will be on cis-lunar applications, referring to uses in the space region extending from Earth to the area surrounding the Moon's surface.
For more corporate information please visit: https://NanoNuclearEnergy.com/
For further NANO Nuclear information, please contact:
Email: IR@NANONuclearEnergy.com
Business Tel: (212) 634-9206
PLEASE FOLLOW OUR SOCIAL MEDIA PAGES HERE:
NANO Nuclear Energy LINKEDIN
NANO Nuclear Energy YOUTUBE
NANO Nuclear Energy X PLATFORM
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements
This news release, the webcast described herein and statements of NANO Nuclear’s management in connection with this news release contain or may contain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this context, forward-looking statements mean statements related to future events, which may impact our expected future business and financial performance, and often contain words such as “expects”, “anticipates”, “intends”, “plans”, “aims,” “develop,” “believes”, “potential”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would” or “may” and other words of similar meaning. In this press release, forward-looking statements include those regarding the Company’s future development, regulatory and commercial plans and anticipated timeframes to execute on those plans. These and other forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date of this news release and represent management's current views and assumptions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, events or results and involve significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may be beyond our control. For NANO Nuclear, particular risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual future results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include but are not limited to the following: (i) risks related to our U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”), U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”), Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission (“CNSC”) or related state or other U.S. or non-U.S nuclear licensing (including construction) submissions, (ii) risks related the development of new or advanced technology and the acquisition of complementary technology or businesses, including difficulties with design and testing, cost overruns, regulatory delays, integration issues and the development of competitive technology, (iii) our ability to obtain contracts and funding to be able to continue operations, (iv) risks related to uncertainty regarding our ability to technologically develop and commercially deploy a competitive advanced nuclear reactor or other technology in the timelines we anticipate, if ever, (v) risks related to the impact of U.S. and non-U.S. government regulation, policies and licensing requirements, including by the DOE, and the NRC, including those associated with the recently enacted ADVANCE Act and the May 23, 2025 Executive Orders seeking to streamline nuclear regulation, and (vi) similar risks and uncertainties associated with the operating a developing business a highly regulated, competitive and rapidly evolving industry, including that our plans may change and we may use our cash on hand faster or in different ways than anticipated as our business requires. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this news release. These factors may not constitute all factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in any forward-looking statement, and NANO Nuclear therefore encourages investors to review other factors that may affect future results in its filings with the SEC, which are available for review at www.sec.gov and at https://ir.nanonuclearenergy.com/financial-information/sec-filings . Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a predictor of actual results. We do not undertake to update our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date of this news release, except as required by law.
Attachment
NANO Nuclear Energy Inc
FAQ
What cash position did NANO Nuclear (NNE) report for Q1 FY2026?
NANO Nuclear reported $577.5 million in cash and cash equivalents at Dec 31, 2025. According to the company, this increase followed an October 2025 private placement that provided net proceeds of approximately $379 million .
When does NANO Nuclear (NNE) plan to submit a U.S. construction permit for KRONOS MMR?
The company is targeting submission of a construction permit application to the NRC in the coming months. According to the company, this would formally initiate licensing and support prototype construction by mid‑to‑late 2027.
How did NANO Nuclear (NNE) fund its Q1 FY2026 operations and facility investments?
Financing activities provided net cash of $381.3 million in the quarter, driven by a private placement. According to the company, proceeds funded operations, R&D and payments for an Oak Brook engineering facility.
What commercial progress did NANO Nuclear (NNE) report for the KRONOS MMR system?
NANO Nuclear reported a growing pipeline of customers, MOUs with partners, and a feasibility study for a 1 GW AI data center. According to the company, engagements span data centers, industrial and military prospects globally.
What steps is NANO Nuclear (NNE) taking on the nuclear fuel supply chain?
The company is advancing vertical integration via partnerships and acquisitions, including affiliate LIST activities and enrichment discussions. According to the company, LIST received a key license and plans to invest $1.38 billion over time.
Nano Nuclear Energy Inc.
NASDAQ: NNE
View NNE Stock Overview &rarr;
NNE Rankings
#3007 Ranked by Market Cap
N/A Ranked by Dividends
#3249 52-Week Gainer
#3472 YTD Gainer
#1393 Monthly Gainer
#620 Ranked by Short %Change
NNE Latest News
Aug 5, 2026
NANO Nuclear to Hold Third Quarter Business Update Webcast on August 12, 2026
Jul 27, 2026
NANO Nuclear Energy Selected by AFWERX for SBIR Phase I Award to Advance KRONOS MMR™ for the U.S. Air Force
Jul 22, 2026
NANO Nuclear and Fortil Advance Engineering Collaboration for the KRONOS MMR™ Fuel Handling & Storage System
Jul 17, 2026
NANO Nuclear Energy Joins Virginia Nuclear Energy Consortium to Advance Nuclear Innovation and Support the Commonwealth’s Growing Energy Requirements
Jun 25, 2026
NANO Nuclear's KRONOS MMR(TM) Program Advances as U.S. NRC Initiates Formal Review Activities with University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign and NANO Nuclear Energy
NNE Latest SEC Filings
Jul 29, 2026
[SCHEDULE 13G/A] Nano Nuclear Energy Inc. Amended Passive Investment Disclosure
Jul 27, 2026
[DEF 14A] Nano Nuclear Energy Inc. Definitive Proxy Statement
Jun 25, 2026
[8-K] Nano Nuclear Energy Inc. Reports Material Event
Jun 24, 2026
[8-K] Nano Nuclear Energy Inc. Reports Material Event
Jun 5, 2026
[Form 4] Nano Nuclear Energy Inc. Insider Trading Activity
NNE Stock Data
Market Cap
975.70M
Float
44.29M
Industry
Specialty Industrial Machinery
Sector
Electric Services
Website
Link
Country
United States
City
NEW YORK
Related Articles
Continue reading with these related stories
$CELZ
Top Gainer
Creative Medical Technology Holdings, Inc. Receives Notice of Allowance for New U.S. Patent Covering Exosome-Based Immunotherapy for Type 1 Diabetes, Deepening IP Protection Across Its MyeloCelz™, CELZ-101 and CELZ-201 Diabetes Platforms
Aug 6, 2026
+101.84%
$YXT
Top Loser
YXT.COM GROUP HOLDING Ltd Announces Pricing of $1.05 Million Registered Direct Offering
Aug 6, 2026
-65.40%
offering
$NNE
Same Company
NANO Nuclear to Hold Third Quarter Business Update Webcast on August 12, 2026
Aug 5, 2026
$NNE
Same Company
NANO Nuclear Energy Selected by AFWERX for SBIR Phase I Award to Advance KRONOS MMR™ for the U.S. Air Force
Jul 27, 2026
clinical trial
$NREDF
Related
NovaRed Mining Interprets Multiple Porphyry Copper-Gold Targets Above Large Interpreted Batholith at Wilmac
Aug 6, 2026
$MYCOF
Related
Noveris Health Sciences Inc. Unaware of Any Material Change
Aug 6, 2026
$AWK
Related
Illinois American Water Recognizes Parent Company American Water's 140 Years of Providing Safe and Reliable Water and Wastewater Services to Customers and Communities in 2026
Aug 6, 2026
$NMRK
Related
Newmark Arranges $718.5 Million SASB Recapitalization of 13-Property Multifamily Portfolio for Keller Investment Properties
Aug 6, 2026
$AGRIP
Related
AgriBank Reports Second Quarter 2026 Financial Results
Aug 6, 2026
earnings
$TSEOF,TSEOQ
Related
Trinseo Reports Second Quarter 2026 Financial Results
Aug 6, 2026
earnings
View All Latest News
Explore
About
Contact
Editorial Policy
FAQ
Rhea-AI
Sitemap
Legal
Terms of Use
Cookie Notice
Privacy Policy
Market Data
Articles
Top Gainers
Market Cap
Momentum Scanner
Stock Themes
Live News
Financial Tools
Stock Market Hours
Links
RSS feed
Facebook
Reddit
Add to Google
An independent AI‑powered platform for real‑time stock market news, press releases, SEC filings, earnings, and tools for trading and investing.
© 2020-2026 StockTitan.net - Your Edge is Information
Information only. Not investment advice.