Interest in Westinghouse AP300™ Small Modular Reactor, AP1000® Technology Surging in Europe as Slovakia Begins Deployment Discussions
Training & Resources
Explore Solutions
Supplier
Contact Us
Supplier
Customer Training
Corporate Home
Media Relations
AP1000® Reactor Media Kit
In the Headlines
Insights
News Releases
Home > News Releases
Share
Categories
News Releases (208)
AP1000 (70)
Nuclear Fuel (40)
General Topics (28)
Technology & Innovation (28)
AP300 (22)
Microreactor (12)
Our People & History (9)
Energy Systems (3)
Operating Plants (2)
Energy Storage (1)
Safety, Reliability & Sustainability (1)
Sign Up for News
Contact Us
Interest in Westinghouse AP300™ Small Modular Reactor, AP1000® Technology Surging in Europe as Slovakia Begins Deployment Discussions
July 17, 2023
by Westinghouse Electric Company
Categories:
AP1000
MOUs Establish Framework to Move Forward on Technical, Commercial Aspects for Projects
Bratislava, Slovakia, July 17, 2023 – Westinghouse Electric Company today announced the signing of memorandums of understanding (MOU) with Slovak state-owned nuclear company JAVYS on the potential deployment of AP1000® reactors and AP300™ small modular reactors (SMR).
From left: Petr Brzezina, President, Westinghouse Czech Republic and Slovakia; Elias Gedeon, SVP, Westinghouse; U.S. Ambassador to Slovakia Gautam Rana; Pavol Štuller, Chairman of the Board and CEO of JAVYS, a.s.
Slovakia is evaluating an expansion of new nuclear energy with Westinghouse’s advanced, state-of-the-art Generation III+ reactor technology. The MOUs signed today will create a framework for the two parties to collaborate on detailed technical and developmental plans, while exploring the next steps to implement the proven reactor technologies in Slovakia.
“The U.S. Embassy in Bratislava is pleased that Westinghouse and JAVYS have signed these two memorandums of understanding, building the foundation for closer commercial cooperation between both companies in the civil nuclear energy sector. This represents another milestone in joint efforts by the governments of the United States and the Slovak Republic to achieve energy security and sustainability in Slovakia with a forward-looking focus on world-class technology,” said Gautam Rana, the U.S. Ambassador to Slovakia.
"We have rich experience with Westinghouse, as we have been collaborating on specific projects related to the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Jaslovské Bohunice for a long time. In addition, Westinghouse is involved in and contributes to the processes of diversification of fresh nuclear fuel for reactors in Slovakia, thus representing, from our perspective, a company that covers the entire nuclear cycle,” said Pavol Štuller, Chairman of the Board and CEO of JAVYS, a.s.
“Slovakia is a country that understands well the benefits of nuclear energy and we are very excited to be working with the JAVYS team to secure their energy future with our advanced, proven AP1000 and AP300 reactor technologies,” said David Durham, Westinghouse President for Energy Systems.
From left: Pavol Štuller, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO of JAVYS a. s. and Elias Gedeon, Senior Vice President - Commercial Operations at Westinghouse Electric Company
The AP1000 reactor is the only operating Generation III+ reactor with fully passive safety systems, modular construction design and has the smallest footprint per MWe on the market. In the United States at the Vogtle site, one AP1000 unit recently began producing power for the grid while a second unit prepares for initial fuel load. Four AP1000 reactors are currently setting operational performance and availability records in China with six additional reactors under construction there. Poland selected the AP1000 technology for its first-ever nuclear energy program while Ukraine is committed to developing nine units. Bulgaria is planning to build one unit and the technology is under consideration at multiple other sites in Central and Eastern Europe, the United Kingdom and in the United States.
Westinghouse launched the AP300 SMR in May, a 300-MWe single-loop pressurized water reactor that is based on the proven, licensed AP1000 technology. The AP300 SMR is the only small modular reactor based on an Nth-of-a-kind operating reactor. Westinghouse is targeting design certification for the AP300 SMR by 2027 and for construction to begin by 2030. The first operating unit would be available in 2033.
About
Innovation
Energy Systems
Nuclear Fuel
Operating Plants
Careers
©2026 Westinghouse Electric Company LLC. All rights reserved. | Privacy Statement | Terms of Use | Cookie Notice