Sam Altman steps down as Oklo chair
Skip Navigation
Markets Pre-Markets
U.S. Markets
Currencies
Prediction Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business Economy
Finance
Health & Science
Media
Real Estate
Energy
Climate
Transportation
Investigations
Industrials
Retail
Wealth
Sports
Life
Small Business
Investing Personal Finance
Fintech
Financial Advisors
Options Action
ETF Street
Buffett Archive
Earnings
Trader Talk
Tech Cybersecurity
AI
Enterprise
Internet
Media
Mobile
Social Media
CNBC Disruptor 50
Tech Guide
Politics & Policy White House
Policy
Defense
Congress
Expanding Opportunity
Video Latest Video
Full Episodes
Livestream
Live Audio
Live TV Schedule
CNBC Podcasts
CEO Interviews
CNBC Documentaries
Digital Originals
Watchlist
Investing Club Trust Portfolio
Analysis
Trade Alerts
Meeting Videos
Homestretch
Jim's Columns
Education
Subscribe
PRO Pro News
Josh Brown
Mike Santoli
Calls of the Day
My Portfolio
Livestream
Full Episodes
Stock Screener
Market Forecast
Options Investing
Chart Investing
Subscribe
Livestream
Menu
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Livestream
Search quotes, news & videos
Livestream
Watchlist
SIGN IN
Create free account
Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics & Policy
Video
Watchlist
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Menu
Energy Sam Altman steps down as Oklo board chair, freeing nuclear startup to work with more AI companies
Published Tue, Apr 22 2025 4:00 PM EDT Updated Tue, Apr 22 2025 5:15 PM EDT
Pippa Stevens @PippaStevens13
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman is stepping down as chair of nuclear startup Oklo.
The move gives Oklo, which is developing advanced nuclear reactors, more flexibility to potentially explore partnerships with OpenAI or other hyperscalers amid data center companies' push to secure power.
In this article
OKLO
Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT
watch now
VIDEO 0:40 00:40
Sam Altman steps down as Oklo chairman
Closing Bell: Overtime
OpenAI's Sam Altman is stepping down as chair of the board of nuclear startup Oklo , after bringing the company public through a merger with his special purpose acquisition company, AltC Acquisition Corp., in May 2024.
The move gives Oklo, which is developing advanced nuclear reactors, more flexibility to potentially explore partnerships with OpenAI or other hyperscalers amid data center companies' push to secure power.
"We are excited to continue working with him [Sam Altman] to bring scalable, clean energy to the AI sector and beyond, and to continue to explore strategic partnerships with leading AI companies, including potentially with OpenAI," Caroline Cochran, Oklo's co-founder and chief operating officer, said in a statement.
"As Oklo explores strategic partnerships to deploy clean energy at scale, particularly to enable the deployment of AI, I believe now is the right time for me to step down," said Altman.
Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, is seen through glass, during an event on the sidelines of the Artificial Intelligence Action Summit in Paris, France, on Feb. 11, 2025.
Aurelien Morissard | Via Reuters
Oklo shares fell 12% in extended trading after the announcement.
In December, Oklo signed an agreement to provide up to 12 gigawatts of power for data center company Switch. But to date, Oklo has not signed an agreement with one of the hyperscalers, despite the tech industry's interest in baseload, emissions-free power.
Oklo says its reactors, called Aurora, have smaller and simpler designs that will range from 75 megawatts to as much as 100 megawatts or more. The company plans to build and operate the plants, directly selling power to customers under long-term contracts.
Oklo plans to launch its first reactor at Idaho National Laboratory in Idaho Falls before the end of the decade.
— CNBC's Spencer Kimball contributed to this report.
Get Your Ticket to Pro LIVE
Join us at the New York Stock Exchange!
Uncertain markets? Gain an edge with CNBC Pro LIVE , an exclusive, inaugural event at the historic New York Stock Exchange. In today's dynamic financial landscape, access to expert insights is paramount.
As a CNBC Pro subscriber, we invite you to join us for our first exclusive, in-person CNBC Pro LIVE event at the iconic NYSE on Thursday, June 12.
Join interactive Pro clinics led by our Pros Carter Worth, Dan Niles and Dan Ives, with a special edition of Pro Talks with Tom Lee. You'll also get the opportunity to network with CNBC experts, talent and other Pro subscribers during an exciting cocktail hour on the legendary trading floor. Tickets are limited!
Don’t miss these insights from CNBC PRO
Trump's $100,000 visa plan could hit these companies the hardest
Goldman Sachs raises S&P 500 target for year-end
China isn't begging for Nvidia anymore. Here are homegrown tech plays to watch
Bitcoin could soon have a big global buyer that has shunned it up to this point
Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
© 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by