Radiant signs contract on microreactors for the military -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
North Anna power plant seeks ESP renewal
August 6, 2026, 12:32PM
Industry Update—August 2026
August 6, 2026, 9:31AM
Ontario invests in medical radioisotope production at McMaster
August 6, 2026, 7:03AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Westinghouse updates: AP1000 potential, IPO, Amentum partnership
August 5, 2026, 12:33PM
Knoxville’s nuclear workshop opens with a full house and a long to-do list
August 5, 2026, 10:10AM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Uranium prices steady as EIA releases annual market report
August 5, 2026, 7:12AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
Advanced Reactors
Radiant signs contract on microreactors for the military
August 14, 2025, 7:03AM
Nuclear News
Image: DIU
California-based microreactor developer Radiant Industries has announced the signing of what it calls “the first-ever agreement” to deliver a mass-manufactured nuclear microreactor to a U.S. military base. The contract was signed with the Department of Defense’s Defense Innovation Unit (DIU) and the U.S. Air Force as part of the Advanced Nuclear Power for Installations (ANPI) program.
ANPI for energy dominance: The DIU, air force, and army launched ANPI earlier this year to “allow for the design and build of fixed on-site microreactor nuclear power systems on select military installations to support global operations across land, air, sea, space, and cyberspace.” Andrew Higier, the DIU energy portfolio director, said at the time, “Microreactors on installations are a critical first step in delivering energy dominance to the Force.”
He continued, “The U.S. and the DOD must maintain the advantage and leverage the best-of-breed nuclear technology for our national security.”
Other companies selected by the DOD that are eligible to provide commercially available microreactor technology at various DOD installations include Antares Nuclear, BWXT Advanced Technologies, General Atomics Electromagnetic Systems, Kairos Power, Oklo, Westinghouse Government Services, and X-energy.
Kaleidos testing: Radiant, which was founded in 2020, is developing portable mass-produced nuclear microreactors. Its first reactor, known as Kaleidos, is a 1-MW “failsafe microreactor that can be transported anywhere power is needed.” The company plans to test it in 2026 and begin initial customer deployments in 2028. Radiant’s goal is to eventually mass produce its portable microreactors.
Next year’s testing of Kaleidos will occur at Idaho National Laboratory’s DOME ( Demonstration of Microreactor Experiments ) facility. Kaleidos will be the first new design of a U.S. nuclear reactor to be tested at DOME in almost 50 years.
Deployment in three years: Radiant founder and CEO Doug Bernauer commented on the new contract signing, saying, “In 36 months, Kaleidos reactors will arrive via truck and within 48 hours plug in, power on, and provide resilient, cybersecure power to our nation’s air force for years without refueling.” A statement from the company added that “Radiant is eager to continue to work with DIU, Department of Defense leadership, Congress, and the President to deliver Kaleidos” within that timeframe.
Tags:
advanced nuclear power for installations air force army defense innovation unit demonstration of microreactor experiments department of defense inl kaleidos microreactor radiant
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
LANL’s ZiaCore microreactor reaches criticality
August 3, 2026, 12:43PM
Nuclear News
Last week, Los Alamos National Laboratory announced that its ZiaCore microreactor was brought to zero-power criticality at high temperatures in April through May of this year during four weeks...
ARC partners with INL for first reactor deployment
July 31, 2026, 7:41AM
Nuclear News
Earlier this week, ARC Clean Technology announced that it has entered into a Strategic Partnership Project agreement with Battelle Energy Alliance—the management and operating contractor of...
NASA and Radiant selected to receive HALEU
July 27, 2026, 12:19PM
Nuclear News
Last week, the Department of Energy announced a conditional commitment to provide high-assay low-enriched uranium to NASA for its Space Reactor-1 Freedom rocket and to Radiant Industries for...
Developers, officials talk advanced reactor outlook with NRC
July 22, 2026, 5:17PM
Nuclear News
The public had a rare opportunity Tuesday morning when the Nuclear Regulatory Commission gathered leaders from the Department of Energy, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission, TerraPower,...
$40M investment to spur new nuclear developments in Idaho and Wyoming
July 21, 2026, 4:09PM
Nuclear News
On Monday, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced that its Economic Development Administration (EDA) intends to award $31 million to the Intermountain-West Nuclear Energy Corridor (INEC)...
The human factor in licensing and operating the next generation of nuclear plants
July 17, 2026, 4:17PM
Nuclear News Stephanie Morrow and Niav Hughes Green
As human factors specialists working at the intersection of human performance and nuclear operations, we are witnessing one of the nuclear sector’s most significant transitions in decades....
Researchers demonstrate remote real-time adjustment of PUR-1 reactor
July 15, 2026, 9:33AM
Nuclear News
The remote, automatic, real-time adjustment of a research reactor’s power by a geographically distributed control system has been reported by researchers from Idaho National Laboratory, the...
Mark Peters: Building on a strong foundation
July 10, 2026, 3:09PM
Nuclear News Lucas Geiger
Summer at the American Nuclear Society carries with it a sense of renewed momentum as the incoming president takes office and starts making plans for the year ahead. This has been particularly...
Defense used fuel recycling project advances to partner selection phase
July 10, 2026, 10:33AM
Nuclear News
The quest of the Department of Energy’s Office of Environmental Management to find a private-sector partner to design, build, and operate a commercial-scale facility to recycle...
ICYMI: Counting up INL’s reactors
July 10, 2026, 7:10AM
Nuclear News
Over the past two weeks, in the “Trivia Tuesday” and “Throwback Thursday” sections of Nuclear News Daily, we have dug into the story of Idaho National Laboratory’s official list of...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media