Radiant Selects Tennessee to Build World’s First Mass-Produced Nuclear Generator Factory
Skip to Main Content
Go to TN.gov
Go to TN.gov
Section
Go to Economic & Community Development (ECD)
Advantages
Business Climate
International
Location & Infrastructure
Workforce & Education
Quality of Life
Industries
Advanced Manufacturing
Aerospace & Defense
Automotive
HQ, Finance & Tech
Ceramics
Appliance & Electrical
Entertainment
Food & Beverage
Healthcare & Life Sciences
Distribution & Logistics
Chemicals
Corporate Expansion
Incentives
Certified Sites
Available Sites
Small Business
TNInvestCo
Entrepreneurism
Business Resources
Fund Tennessee (SSBCI)
Rural Development
Rural Fellowship Program
Governor's Rural Initiatives
Community Development Block Grant
Historic Development Grant Program
Infrastructure Planning Grant
Small and Rural Hospital Readiness Grant
Site Development
Tennessee Main Street
ThreeStar
Work Based Learning Grant
Calendar
Grant Administration
Broadband Office
West TN Planning/BlueOval City
Appalachian Regional Commission
Delta Regional Authority
Grant Opportunity Fund
News
Resources
Publications & Maps
County Profile Tool
Photo Assets
Newsletter Sign-up
Brand Assets
Resource Links
Local Government Planning Advisory Committee
OpenECD
Grants
Rural Development Grants
Federal Grant Programs
Additional Grants
Print This Page
Print This Page
Go to Search
Radiant Selects Tennessee to Build World’s First Mass-Produced Nuclear Generator Factory
Monday, October 13, 2025 | 02:00pm
Nuclear generator company to invest $280 million in Oak Ridge, utilize state’s Nuclear Energy Fund
OAK RIDGE, Tenn. – Tennessee Gov. Bill Lee, Department of Economic and Community Development Commissioner Stuart C. McWhorter and Radiant officials announced today the company has selected Tennessee for a $280 million investment that will expand the company’s nuclear manufacturing and research and development (R&D) to Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Through the project, Radiant will create 175 new jobs in Roane County that will directly support the development and mass production of Radiant’s Kaleidos. Upon completion of the facility, this machine will be the world’s first one-megawatt portable nuclear generator capable of generating power in remote areas and providing resilient power options for military bases or disaster-relief scenarios.
Radiant is the sixth company to locate in Tennessee utilizing the Nuclear Energy Fund.
The $50 million fund was in Gov. Lee’s recommended 2023-2024 budget and approved by the Tennessee General Assembly. An additional $10 million was allocated and approved in the state’s budget during both the 2024 and 2025 legislative sessions, bringing the fund’s total to $70 million since its inception.
QUOTES
“Tennessee is quickly emerging as the national leader in clean, reliable energy production. That’s why innovative companies like Radiant are choosing our state for cutting-edge manufacturing and R&D. I’m proud to welcome Radiant to the Tennessee family and look forward to the vital role this company will play on the global stage, producing what will become the world’s first nuclear microreactor from right here in Oak Ridge.” – Gov. Bill Lee
“Radiant’s $280 million investment and creation of 175 high-quality new jobs is a critical win for our state’s growing nuclear ecosystem. This investment marks the third nuclear project we’ve announced since September, reinforcing the state’s position at the forefront of next-generation energy innovation. We thank Radiant for its commitment to Tennessee and look forward to seeing the lasting impact this project will bring to our state and all Tennesseans.” – TNECD Commissioner Stuart C. McWhorter
“We choose Oak Ridge, Tennessee, because of their strong workforce, the community’s rich nuclear heritage and the public’s second-to-none nuclear IQ. Just as importantly, the state’s business-friendly environment gave us the immediate regulatory certainty we needed to move fast and be up and running to meet growing customer demand for our Kaleidos nuclear generators. We’re excited to start building in just a few months.” – Tori Shivanandan, Chief Operating Officer, Radiant
“TVA’s nuclear leadership is a powerful asset in helping attract nuclear innovators to Tennessee, America’s advanced nuclear technologies hub. Radiant will strengthen our region’s role in shaping America’s energy future where innovation drives job creation, attracts investment and fuels long-term prosperity for our communities.” – Don Moul, president and CEO, TVA
“I’m excited to welcome Radiant to Roane County – the most nuclear-friendly community in the country. Their mission and purpose align perfectly with our community’s history, acceptance, and experienced workforce in nuclear energy. Radiant will serve as a key player within the nuclear ecosystem being developed within the Oak Ridge Corridor. We are proud to welcome you home.” – Roane County Executive Wade Creswell
“The City of Oak Ridge welcomes Radiant Industries, a leader in the microreactor industry. Radiant exemplifies the type of industry partner we aimed to attract when we established the Oak Ridge Corridor Development Corporation, focusing on bringing leading companies in the new nuclear sector to our city.” – Oak Ridge Mayor Warren Gooch
“Radiant’s decision to invest in Roane County is a tremendous win for our region. This investment will further solidify East Tennessee’s role as a national leader in nuclear innovation. I’m proud to support this project and look forward to the positive impact it will have on our local workforce and economy.” – Sen. Ken Yager (R-Kingston)
About the Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development (TNECD)
TNECD is the state's primary agency committed to fostering economic growth through job creation and community development. By attracting new corporate investment and facilitating the growth of existing businesses, the department works to strengthen Tennessee's competitive landscape. Additionally, TNECD strives to increase the economic prosperity for all Tennesseans by providing grants to communities statewide, helping them to become vibrant, business-friendly environments where companies can flourish. For more information, visit us at tnecd.com . Join the conversation on Twitter , Instagram , LinkedIn , Facebook and YouTube .
TNECD
Lindsey Tipton
Director of Communications
(615) 339-6608
Lindsey.Tipton@tn.gov
###
Social Media
facebook
twitter
youtube
instagram
flickr
blogger
linkedin
About Us
Tennessee Quick Facts
Meet the Team
Events
Resources
OpenECD
Publications & Maps
County Profile Tool
Photo Assets
Newsletter Sign-up
Brand Assets
Legal
Resource Links
Partner Sites
TNECD.com
Governor's Conference
LaunchTN
TN Main Street
TNSmartStart
Tennessee Department of Economic and Community Development
Stuart C. McWhorter, Commissioner
312 Rosa L. Parks Avenue
Nashville, Tennessee 37243
(615) 741-1888
ECD.Communications.Office@tn.gov
Flag Status
Chat
Help
Translate
Font Size
a-
Normal
A+
TN.gov Services
TN.gov Directory
Transparent TN
Web Policies
Mobile App
About Tennessee
Title VI
Accessibility
Help & Contact
Survey
Close