Texas opens $350M in nuclear funding -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
Study mapping U-10Zr porosity informs metallic fuel design
August 17, 2026, 12:28PM
Supplier Showcase focus: MUR DVR
August 17, 2026, 11:37AM
Diablo Canyon receives partial Civil Nuclear Credit payment
August 17, 2026, 9:36AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
X-energy, TerraPower share updates on advanced reactor projects
August 17, 2026, 7:11AM
Front-end nuclear fuel supply cooperation: Turning allied interdependence into strategic advantage
August 14, 2026, 4:04PM
New measurement of diamond phase change could mean increased ICF energy gain
August 14, 2026, 2:10PM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Cleanup work progresses with pump removal at Hanford Tank Farms
August 14, 2026, 9:56AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
Policy
Texas opens $350M in nuclear funding
April 9, 2026, 7:10AM
Nuclear News
Three years ago, the Texas Public Utility Commission launched the Advanced Nuclear Reactor Working Group at the direction of Gov. Greg Abbott. One year later, that new group issued a report recommending several actions to the Texas legislature that could be taken to attract new nuclear projects to the state.
Included in those recommendations were the foundation of a nonregulatory entity to coordinate Texas’s “strategic nuclear vision” along with an advanced nuclear fund to help “overcome the funding valley project developers face” in the state.
The year 2025 saw the signing of H.B. 14 and the foundation of the Texas Advanced Nuclear Energy Office (TANEO), satisfying the first recommendation. Now, meeting the second recommendation, Texas has opened $350 million in state funding to “ensure the development of advanced nuclear energy and associated technologies,” along with the “development of an advanced nuclear energy supply chain and associated manufacturing capacity,” per the Texas Advanced Nuclear Development Fund (TANDF) page on TANEO’s website.
More details : Reflecting the state’s interest in both nuclear power deployment and broader supply chain development, the $350 million being made available through the TANDF can be applied for through two associated programs: the Advanced Nuclear Construction Reimbursement Program and the Project Design and Supply Chain Reimbursement Program.
Applicants must submit a notice of intent to the state by April 23 and a full funding application by May 14. According to TANEO, eligible applicants include “businesses, nonprofit organizations, and governmental entities, including institutions of higher education.” Importantly, an applicant must also “have—or reasonably expect to have—a docketed construction permit or license application for the project at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission on or before December 1, 2026.”
As of now, TANEO director Jarred Shaffer said, “We’ve only got two eligible projects in the state that check that docketed box.”
Dow and X-energy have partnered to deploy four 80-MWe Xe-100 high-temperature, gas-cooled reactors at the UCC Seadrift Operations manufacturing site. Dow submitted a construction permit application for that project in March 2025, which is backed by the Department of Energy’s Advanced Reactor Demonstration Program.
Fermi America and Texas Tech University are collaborating to deploy four AP1000s by 2032 beside the Pantex nuclear weapons plant in Amarillo. Fermi submitted a combined license application to the NRC for that project in September 2025. This project is frequently referred to as Project Matador or the Advanced Energy and Intelligence Campus, with the nuclear portion named the Donald J. Trump nuclear power plant.
Notably, Abilene Christian University also holds a docketed NRC permit for its Molten Salt Research Reactor. However, because the project has already received $120 million in other state funding sources, it is not eligible for further funding through the construction program within the TANDF. It remains eligible for the project design and supply chain portion of the funding.
Broadening the scope to projects that could “reasonably expect” to have an NRC permit by the beginning of the December, there are two parties already in preapplication activities with the NRC. Those are Texas A&M, which has partnered with ZettaJoule to deploy a reactor on the university’s College Station campus, and Last Energy , which is progressing on plans to site 30 20-MWe pressurized water reactors in Haskell County, Texas.
Outside of the scope of the NRC, there are two DOE-backed projects currently being developed in Texas: Atomic Alchemy’s Groves Isotope Test Reactor in Lockhart and Aalo Atomics ’ facilities in Austin. While both of these companies have previously engaged with the NRC, they have yet to formally begin the NRC licensing process for these projects. However, as the landscape of nuclear licensing rapidly changes and ties between the DOE and NRC appear to strengthen, their eligibility for TANEO’s funding remains possible.
Tags:
grant jarred shaffer taneo texas
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
Agreement advances Texas gas-plus-nuclear concept to next phase
August 17, 2026, 3:09PM
Nuclear News
Plans between GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear Energy and Blue Energy to build a “gas-plus-nuclear” power plant have advanced beyond a strategic collaboration, with an agreement now in place....
X-energy, TerraPower share updates on advanced reactor projects
August 17, 2026, 7:11AM
Nuclear News
The two main players of the Department of Energy’s Advanced Reactor Demonstration Program, X-energy and TerraPower, have both announced significant developments in their projects to deploy...
Oklo’s Isotope Test Reactor achieves criticality
August 6, 2026, 3:36PM
Nuclear News
Oklo’s Groves Isotope Test Reactor became the fifth Department of Energy–authorized reactor to achieve criticality under the agency’s authorization process, it was announced earlier...
Texas A&M welcomes uranium conversion research
July 22, 2026, 6:57AM
Nuclear News
The Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station (TEES) has signed a research agreement with Quantum Leap Energy (QLE) “to advance and de-risk the commercial production of high-purity...
Terrestrial Energy and Texas A&M reach agreement on reactor siting
June 23, 2026, 7:06AM
Nuclear News
Terrestrial Energy has signed ground lease and research agreements with the Texas A&M University System (TAMUS) to exclusively use about 77 acres of land at the Texas A&M–RELLIS...
Preliminary white safety finding at Comanche Peak prompts NRC conference
May 15, 2026, 9:25AM
Nuclear News
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will hold a regulatory conference Tuesday, May 19, with Vistra Operations Company officials to discuss a preliminary “white” safety finding at Comanche...
Blue Energy, GE Vernova plan “gas-plus-nuclear” power plant in Texas
May 5, 2026, 4:39PM
Nuclear News
GE Vernova has formed a strategic collaboration with nuclear project financing and manufacturing firm Blue Energy to “advance the world’s first gas-plus-nuclear power plant.” The...
Uranium Energy Corp. begins production at Burke Hollow
April 17, 2026, 7:07AM
Nuclear News
Uranium Energy Corp. (UEC) has begun production activities at its Burke Hollow in situ recovery (ISR) mining operation in southern Texas after receiving approval from the Texas Commission on...
Project Matador joins EIS pilot program; NRC seeks public input
March 24, 2026, 12:20PM
Nuclear News
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has released a notice of intent to conduct a scoping process and prepare an environmental impact statement to evaluate Fermi America’s plan to construct and...
The battle against New World screwworm continues
February 27, 2026, 7:21AM
Nuclear News
Last year, the state of Texas, in partnership with several arms of the federal government, mounted a major response to the New World screwworm (NWS)—a parasitic fly spreading through...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media