Army announces Janus Program for next-generation nuclear energy &#124; Article &#124; The United States Army
Army announces Janus Program for next-generation nuclear energy
By U.S. Army Public Affairs October 14, 2025
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on Reddit
Share on LinkedIn
Share via Email
WASHINGTON — The Department of Army today announced the launch of the Janus Program, a next-generation nuclear power program that will deliver resilient, secure, and assured energy to support national defense installations and critical missions.
The announcement was made at an Association of the United States Army (AUSA) Annual Meeting Warriors Corner panel, where Army leaders were joined by the U.S. Secretary of Energy Chris Wright to highlight this milestone initiative.
Executive Order 14299, “Deploying Advanced Nuclear Reactor Technologies for National Security,” directs the Department of War to commence operation of an Army-regulated nuclear reactor at a domestic military installation no later than September 30, 2028. The Department of Army, designated by the Secretary of War as the Executive Agent for this mission, will lead the Janus Program on behalf of the Department of War.
“The U.S. Army is leading the way on fielding innovative and disruptive technology,” said Secretary of the Army Dan Driscoll. “We are shredding red tape and incubating next-generation capabilities in a variety of critical sectors, including nuclear power.”
Program Details
The Janus Program will leverage the Army’s nuclear regulatory authorities in close partnership with the Department of Energy to ensure the highest standards of safety, oversight, and transparency.
“Since the Manhattan Project, the Department of Energy and the Department of War have forged one of the defining partnerships in American history—advancing the science, engineering, and industrial capability that power our national security,” said Wright. “What began as a wartime effort became the backbone of America’s peacetime strength. Under President Trump’s leadership, we’re extending that legacy through initiatives like the Janus Program, accelerating next-generation reactor deployment and strengthening the nuclear foundations of American energy and defense.”
The program will build commercial microreactors through a nimble, milestone-based contracting model in partnership with the Defense Innovation Unit (DIU), accelerating delivery of advanced energy solutions to the warfighter.
The reactors will be commercially owned-and-operated, with the milestone payments intended to help companies close their business cases as they seek “Nth-of-a-kind” production. The Army and DIU will be modeling this contracting mechanism off of NASA’s Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) program.
The Army will provide technical oversight and assistance, including support to the full uranium fuel cycle and broader nuclear supply chain, ensuring the program strengthens both defense and U.S. industrial capabilities.
The Janus Program will build on lessons learned from Project Pele, a transportable nuclear reactor which is the first electricity-producing Generation IV nuclear reactor to begin construction anywhere in the world outside of China. The Department of Energy laboratory teams which partnered on the technical, legal, and policy aspects of Project Pele will also be working closely on the Janus Program.
“The Janus Program is going to deliver real hardware, not PowerPoint slides,” said Dr. Jeff Waksman, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army for Installations, Energy and Environment. “I will personally oversee this effort on behalf of the War Department. By leveraging Army’s program management and oversight capabilities with the accomplishments of Project Pele, the U.S. Army is ready to move forward at lightning speed to make next-generation nuclear power a reality.”
This initiative represents a substantial investment in military and national energy dominance and will help chart the course for widespread deployment of Microreactor Power Plants. It demonstrates a commitment to next-generation energy capabilities that provide the Department with reliable, resilient energy to provide mission assurance, readiness, and lethality to the Armed Forces.
The Janus Program underscores the Department of War’s commitment to the warfighter ethos by ensuring uninterrupted energy for training, deployment, and combat operations.
TOP STORIES
August 7, 2026 US Army officially authorizes Army-wide wear of the Jungle Tab
August 6, 2026 US Army prepares Soldier deployment to support wildfire suppression
August 5, 2026 Tobyhanna Army Depot enters first-of-its-kind arrangement for rapid sUAS component production
August 5, 2026 US Army Combined Arms Command advances AI-powered knowledge platform, VICTOR
August 5, 2026 Nordhaus, Raines praise enlisted force for delivering ‘Always Ready, Always There’
August 5, 2026 Army Research Laboratory, Berkeley Drone Technologies host inaugural drone challenge
August 5, 2026 US Army and Tennessee Valley Authority explore initiatives to enhance grid resilience, support national security
August 4, 2026 Puerto Rico Guard Soldiers distribute water amid drought
Social Sharing
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on Reddit
Share on LinkedIn
Share via Email