Oracle designing data center that would be powered by 3 small nuclear reactors
Skip Navigation
Markets Pre-Markets
U.S. Markets
Currencies
Prediction Markets
Cryptocurrency
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business Economy
Finance
Health & Science
Media
Real Estate
Energy
Climate
Transportation
Investigations
Industrials
Retail
Wealth
Sports
Life
Small Business
Investing Personal Finance
Fintech
Financial Advisors
Options Action
ETF Street
Buffett Archive
Earnings
Trader Talk
Tech Cybersecurity
AI
Enterprise
Internet
Media
Mobile
Social Media
CNBC Disruptor 50
Tech Guide
Politics & Policy White House
Policy
Defense
Congress
Expanding Opportunity
Video Latest Video
Full Episodes
Livestream
Live Audio
Live TV Schedule
CNBC Podcasts
CEO Interviews
CNBC Documentaries
Digital Originals
Watchlist
Investing Club Trust Portfolio
Analysis
Trade Alerts
Meeting Videos
Homestretch
Jim's Columns
Education
Subscribe
PRO Pro News
Josh Brown
Mike Santoli
Calls of the Day
My Portfolio
Livestream
Full Episodes
Stock Screener
Market Forecast
Options Investing
Chart Investing
Subscribe
Livestream
Menu
Make It
select
USA
INTL
Livestream
Search quotes, news & videos
Livestream
Watchlist
SIGN IN
Create free account
Markets
Business
Investing
Tech
Politics & Policy
Video
Watchlist
Investing Club
PRO
Livestream
Menu
Energy Oracle is designing a data center that would be powered by three small nuclear reactors
Published Tue, Sep 10 2024 3:54 PM EDT Updated Tue, Sep 10 2024 4:11 PM EDT
Spencer Kimball @spencekimball
WATCH LIVE
Key Points
Oracle is designing a data center that would require more than a gigawatt of power, chairman and co-founder Larry Ellison said.
The data center would be powered by three small modular nuclear reactors, Ellison told investors this week.
Small modular reactors are next-generation designs that promise to speed the deployment of reliable, carbon-free power — but they face challenges reaching the commercial stage.
In this article
ORCL
Follow your favorite stocks CREATE FREE ACCOUNT
A view of Oracle's headquarters in Redwood Shores, California, on Sept. 11, 2023.
Justin Sullivan | Getty Images
Oracle chairman and co-founder Larry Ellison had a "bizarre" announcement to make this week.
The electricity demand from artificial intelligence is becoming so "crazy" that Oracle is looking to secure power from next-generation nuclear technology, Ellison told investors on the company's earnings call Monday .
"Let me say something that's going to sound really bizarre," Ellison told analysts. "Well, you'd probably say, well, he says bizarre things all the time, so why is he announcing this one. It must be really bizarre."
Oracle is designing a data center that will require more than a gigawatt of electricity, the company's chairman said. The data center would be powered by three small nuclear reactors, he added.
Read more
Small nuclear reactors could power the future — the challenge is building the first one in the U.S.
AI demand could strain electrical grid in coming decade
"The location and the power place we've located, they've already got building permits for three nuclear reactors," Ellison said. "These are the small modular nuclear reactors to power the data center. This is how crazy it's getting. This is what's going on."
Ellison did not disclose the location of the data center or the future reactors. CNBC reached out to Oracle for comment.
Small modular nuclear reactors are new designs that promise to speed the deployment of reliable, carbon-free energy as power demand rises from data centers, manufacturing and the broader electrification of the economy.
Generally, these reactors are 300 megawatts or less, about a third the size of the typical reactor in the current U.S. fleet. They would be prefabricated in several pieces and then assembled on the site, reducing the capital costs that stymie larger plants.
Right now, small modular reactors are a technology of the future, with executives in the nuclear industry generally agreeing that they won't be commercialized in the U.S. until the 2030s.
There are currently three operational small modular reactors in the world, according to the Nuclear Energy Agency . Two are in China and Russia, the central geopolitical adversaries of the U.S. A test reactor is also operational in Japan.
Catch up on the latest energy news from CNBC Pro:
Morgan Stanley says nuclear power is gaining momentum, recommends these stocks
This solar stock has nearly 30% upside, Wells Fargo says
This stock could benefit as Trump tries to put a nuclear reactor on the moon, according to BofA
Track all the latest coverage of oil prices and the oil and gas industry at CNBC.com.
Choose CNBC as your preferred source on Google and never miss a moment from the most trusted name in business news.
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Subscribe to Investing Club
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Select Personal Finance
Join the CNBC Panel
Closed Captioning
Digital Products
News Releases
Internships
Corrections
About CNBC
Site Map
Podcasts
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
Get In Touch
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
Sign Up Now Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services.
Advertise With Us
Please Contact Us
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
CA Notice
Terms of Service
© 2026 Versant Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Versant Media Company.
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes.
Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data
and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers Data also provided by