Trump’s pro-fracking energy secretary pick has also invested in geothermal and nuclear startups | TechCrunch
–:–:–:–
🚨 Flash Sale 🚨 Get $100 off your Disrupt 2026 ticket
Save $300 on your Disrupt 2026 ticket: REGISTER NOW.
Close
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Disrupt 2026
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search Submit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Contact Us
Image Credits: Gage Skidmore (opens in a new window) / Wikimedia Commons (opens in a new window) under a CC BY-SA 2.0 (opens in a new window) license.
Climate
Trump’s pro-fracking energy secretary pick has also invested in geothermal and nuclear startups
Tim De Chant
12:40 PM PST · November 18, 2024
President-elect Donald Trump said on Saturday that he would be nominating Chris Wright, CEO of oilfield services company Liberty Energy, to the post of energy secretary.
Wright has been a big booster of oil and gas. From his perch at Liberty, Wright last year denied that there’s a climate crisis or that it’ll result in negative impacts, something that puts him at odds with the majority of atmospheric and climate scientists, or that the world is undergoing an energy transition. He claimed that energy prices are up as a result of policies favorable to clean energy, despite the fact that oil prices have been flat since 2010 and natural gas prices are down 50% , too.
At the same time, Wright acknowledged that the climate is changing and the seas are rising. He’s also no stranger to climate tech.
Liberty invested in Fervo Energy, an advanced geothermal startup, in 2022, participating in a $138 million round. Fervo builds on fracking technology originally developed to drill oil and gas wells to drive down the costs of geothermal power.
Wright also sits on the board of Oklo, a nuclear power startup chaired by Sam Altman. Oklo went public via SPAC in 2023, and while it’s had trouble getting its reactor designs certified by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, its share price has doubled in the last month as investors have ridden the energy-for-data centers wave .
If confirmed by the Senate, Wright would oversee the Department of Energy’s sweeping portfolio, from nuclear weapons testing to national labs, emergency petroleum reserves to energy-efficiency programs.
He would also oversee the Loan Programs Office (LPO), which offers loan guarantees for large energy-related infrastructure projects. While most earlier stage startups wouldn’t be directly affected by any change in the LPO, debt offered through the program is something like a light at the end of the tunnel, providing helpful support as they go to raise from private lenders to deploy their technologies at commercial scale.
The LPO currently holds about $35 billion in its portfolio , most of which falls under the climate tech umbrella, including utility-scale solar projects, wind farms, and carbon capture installations.
Topics
Climate , Department of Energy , Fervo Energy , geothermal energy , Government & Policy , nuclear power , Oklo
When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.
Tim De Chant
Senior Reporter, Climate
Tim De Chant is a senior climate reporter at TechCrunch. He has written for a wide range of publications, including Wired magazine, the Chicago Tribune, Ars Technica, The Wire China, and NOVA Next, where he was founding editor.
De Chant is also a lecturer in MIT’s Graduate Program in Science Writing, and he was awarded a Knight Science Journalism Fellowship at MIT in 2018, during which time he studied climate technologies and explored new business models for journalism. He received his PhD in environmental science, policy, and management from the University of California, Berkeley, and his BA degree in environmental studies, English, and biology from St. Olaf College.
You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing tim.dechant@techcrunch.com .
View Bio
October 13 – 15
San Francisco
Scale faster. Grow your portfolio. Gain practical expertise. No matter your goal, Disrupt can empower you.
Save up to $300 toda y!
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
Stripe will reportedly acquire AI gateway startup OpenRouter for $7B+
Anthony Ha
If Apple sends you a push notification alerting you to a spyware attack, take it seriously
Zack Whittaker
Instagram introduces a redesigned wordmark
Sarah Perez
Some Claude users are mad that Anthropic’s new watermarks will catch them using it at their jobs, classes
Lucas Ropek
After Microsoft threatened legal action, a security researcher publishes a new Windows zero-day bug
Zack Whittaker
Everything announced at Made by Google ’26: Pixel 11, Pixel Watch 5, Pixel Tag, and tons of Gemini features
Lauren Forristal
Anthropic says it will watermark text generated by its AI models
Ivan Mehta
Loading the next article
Error loading the next article
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Made by Google
Phia
Blacksmith
Pixel Tag
Disrupt 2026
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.