X-energy stock pops 27% on first day of trading following upsized IPO | TechCrunch
–:–:–:–
🚨 Flash Sale 🚨 Get $100 off your Disrupt 2026 ticket
Get $400 off your Disrupt 2026 ticket: REGISTER NOW.
Close
TechCrunch Desktop Logo
TechCrunch Mobile Logo
Latest
Startups
Venture
Apple
Security
AI
Apps
Disrupt 2026
Events
Podcasts
Newsletters
Search Submit
Site Search Toggle
Mega Menu Toggle
Topics
Latest
AI
Amazon
Apps
Biotech & Health
Climate
Cloud Computing
Commerce
Crypto
Enterprise
EVs
Fintech
Fundraising
Gadgets
Gaming
Google
Government & Policy
Hardware
Instagram
Layoffs
Media & Entertainment
Meta
Microsoft
Privacy
Robotics
Security
Social
Space
Startups
TikTok
Transportation
Venture
More from TechCrunch
Staff
Events
Startup Battlefield
StrictlyVC
Newsletters
Podcasts
Videos
Partner Content
TechCrunch Brand Studio
Crunchboard
Contact Us
Image Credits: Michael Nagle/Bloomberg / Getty Images
Climate
X-energy stock pops 27% on first day of trading following upsized IPO
Tim De Chant
1:10 PM PDT · April 24, 2026
X-energy’s stock popped today in its debut on the Nasdaq , opening at $30.11 before closing at $29.20, up 27% over its initial public offering of $23 per share.
Investors can’t get enough nuclear power, apparently. Even the initial share price had been revised upward from the $16 to $19 target floated by the company during its investor roadshow. At close, the company was valued at $11.5 billion.
Just five years ago, such interest in a nuclear startup would have come as a surprise to many.
Back then, the nuclear industry was haunted by delayed projects and massive cost overruns at recently completed reactors. Two power plants were completed in Georgia — one in the late 2010s and another in the early 2020s. In total, they cost around $30 billion to build.
Nuclear startups in the early 2020s were in their infancy, and at least one frontrunner had run into significant regulatory problems , sparking fears that the industry hadn’t been able to put its past behind it.
Now, investors appear optimistic that X-energy and its peers have figured out a way around the challenges.
Much of the momentum can be traced to the AI-driven data center boom. GPUs need tremendous amounts of electricity, and while solar, wind, batteries, and natural gas have been filling the need today, tech companies have been hoping to diversify. Nuclear power is one of the many options they’ve been exploring, hoping that the compact form factor will be an ideal fit for their sprawling data centers.
Nuclear power has long had more potential to power the U.S. grid than it has been able to deliver. Today, about 18% of electricity in the country comes from nuclear power. But reactor costs have risen in recent decades. Nuclear power might be one of the most reliable sources of electricity in the U.S., but it’s also one of the most expensive.
X-energy’s 80-megawatt reactor design is an order of magnitude smaller than many existing nuclear power plants. The company is betting that modularity can help bring costs down, and data center operators are hoping that a single campus can be powered by a fleet of reactors, providing the sort of redundancy and stability they prize. Amazon has said it will buy up to 5 gigawatts’ worth of capacity from X-energy over the next decade or so, but chemical maker Dow will receive the startup’s first power plant.
Construction is underway at X-energy’s fuel facility, and while the company has yet to start construction of a power plant, investors appear bullish that the company will be able to break nuclear power free from its decades-long malaise.
Topics
Climate , Fundraising , IPO , nuclear fission , nuclear power , X-Energy
When you purchase through links in our articles, we may earn a small commission . This doesn’t affect our editorial independence.
Tim De Chant
Senior Reporter, Climate
Tim De Chant is a senior climate reporter at TechCrunch. He has written for a wide range of publications, including Wired magazine, the Chicago Tribune, Ars Technica, The Wire China, and NOVA Next, where he was founding editor.
De Chant is also a lecturer in MIT’s Graduate Program in Science Writing, and he was awarded a Knight Science Journalism Fellowship at MIT in 2018, during which time he studied climate technologies and explored new business models for journalism. He received his PhD in environmental science, policy, and management from the University of California, Berkeley, and his BA degree in environmental studies, English, and biology from St. Olaf College.
You can contact or verify outreach from Tim by emailing tim.dechant@techcrunch.com .
View Bio
October 13 – 15
San Francisco
Scale faster. Grow your portfolio. Gain practical expertise. No matter your goal, Disrupt can empower you.
Save up to $330 toda y!
REGISTER NOW
Most Popular
Bending Spoons to buy Airtable for $1.28B
Ivan Mehta
Influencers draw backlash for attending OpenAI’s first luxury trip
Dominic-Madori Davis
Sequoia’s Shaun Maguire leads $1B round for nuclear startup Valar Atomics
Julie Bort
Malaysia is reportedly shutting down Balaji Srinivasan’s Network School
Anthony Ha
YouTuber Hank Green says his AI usage is ‘not healthy’
Anthony Ha
VC-backed startups commit more fraud, and researchers think they know why
Dominic-Madori Davis
WhatsApp is testing a new folder for messages from large businesses
Ivan Mehta
Loading the next article
Error loading the next article
X
LinkedIn
Facebook
Instagram
youTube
Mastodon
Threads
Bluesky
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Crunchboard Jobs
Site Map
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
RSS Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
OpenAI vs Apple
Nous Research
Space Data Centers
Staya Nadella
SpaceX Starship
Tech Layoffs
ChatGPT
© 2026 TechCrunch Media LLC.