Gravity Reactor™ | Small modular PWR a mile underground :: Deep Fission, Inc. (FISN)
Skip to main content
Skip to footer
About Us
Company Overview
Executives
Nuclear Experts
Drilling Experts
World Class Team
Board of Directors
Advisory Board
Technology
Sites
Site Development
Parsons
Regulatory
FAQ
PR + Media Kit
Press Releases
Media Kit
Events
Investors
IR Overview
News & Events
Company Information
Financial Results
Stock Data
SEC Filings
Regulatory
Governance
Careers
Careers Overview
Internship Program
Contact Us
Site Announcement
Liz Muller to present at Canaccord Genuity’s 46th Annual Growth Conference
Register for the Webcast
Technology
Deep Fission Gravity™ Nuclear Reactor
Established Nuclear Technology, Deployed in a New Way.
Deep Fission’s Gravity Nuclear Reactor technology taps into one of nature’s most reliable forces intended to support safety functions, reduce surface infrastructure, and enable more repeatable deployment.
Integrating Three Established Technologies
An approach that enables the use of off-the-shelf components, existing supply chains, and readily available low-enriched uranium (LEU) fuel.
1
Gravity Well Drilling
Oil & Gas
Developing advanced deep borehole drilling using standard infrastructure for containment one mile underground.
2
Heat Exchanger
Geothermal
Novel deployment approach applies proven geothermal components and processes for energy transfer to the turbine generator at the surface.
3
Reactor Canister
PWR
Hydrostatic pressure from one-mile-deep column of water provides 160 atm of reliable pressure, safely and naturally.
Existing LEU Fuel Supply
Deep Fission is designed to use readily available low-enriched uranium (LEU) fuel — the same category of fuel used in commercial nuclear power plants today.
Read more
Adaptable Energy Designed to Meet Any Demand
Our modular reactors are engineered for flexible deployment across a wide range of environments, from industrial hubs to remote locations. Each environment provides dependable and scalable power while supporting industries, communities, and critical infrastructure.
Tech & Energy
Commercial/Industrial
Military/Remote Locations
Tech & Energy
Up to 100 reactors on one single site for hyperscale data centers and large power plants.
Power Output: 300 MWe - 1.5+ GWe
Borehole Reactors: 20-100+
Fuel and Refueling: Low Enriched Uranium (LEU) using four standard pressurized water reactor (PWR) fuel assemblies
Cooling: Water
Containment: Geological isolation at depth naturally provides operational pressures, enhances safety, and protects the public; no large, above-ground containment structures needed
Spent Fuel Storage: Conventional spent fuel handling; passive, reliable cooling; secure, long-term pool storage and management
Construction Schedule: Estimated six months per reactor
Commercial/Industrial
We power large commercial or industrial operations and data centers
Power Output: 150 MWe - 285 MWe
Borehole Reactors: 10-19
Fuel and Refueling: Low Enriched Uranium (LEU) using four standard pressurized water reactor (PWR) fuel assemblies
Cooling: Water
Containment: Geological isolation at depth naturally provides operational pressures, enhances safety, and protects the public; no large, above-ground containment structures needed
Spent Fuel Storage: Conventional spent fuel handling; passive, reliable cooling; secure, long-term pool storage and management
Construction Schedule: Estimated six months per reactor
Military/Remote Locations
We power remote military locations or small commercial operations.
Power Output: 15 MWe - 135 MWe
Borehole Reactors: 1-9+
Fuel and Refueling: Low Enriched Uranium (LEU) using four standard pressurized water reactor (PWR) fuel assemblies
Cooling: Water
Containment: Geological isolation at depth naturally provides operational pressures, enhances safety, and protects the public; no large, above-ground containment structures needed
Spent Fuel Storage: Conventional spent fuel handling; passive, reliable cooling; secure, long-term pool storage and management
Construction Schedule: Estimated six months per reactor
Engineering Simplicity for an Energetic Impact
Each component that makes up our technology has been purposely engineered to build one of the most impactful solutions in nuclear power to date.
Read Our FAQ
A Simple Design for Advanced Nuclear Energy
Follow a step-by-step explanation of the Gravity Nuclear Reactor™ as Jason Pottorf, Director of Thermal Hydraulics, demonstrates fuel loading, coolant circulation, and heat transfer using a detailed scale model of the underground reactor system.
Underground Advantages for Above Ground Success
Scalable Power
Each reactor delivers up to 15 MWe of reliable power, with modular scalability that can expand with additional boreholes to meet growing energy demands.
Standard Fuel
The design of the reactors utilizes low-enriched uranium (LEU) technology using 2x2 and 3x3 pressurized water reactor (PWR) fuel assemblies for consistent performance.
Containment
Geological isolation at depth naturally provides operational pressures, enhances safety, and protects the public; no large, above-ground containment structures needed.
Spent Fuel
Encompasses safe interim storage pending identification of national, long-term storage solutions.
Rapid Growth from First Reactor to Full Operation
1
Reactor expected to produce up to 15MWe to power small commercial buildings, military, and remote locations
10
Reactors expected to produce 150MWe to power medium to large data centers, and large commercial buildings
100
Reactors expected to produce 1.5GWe to power hyperscale data centers and large power plants
&copy; 2026
Deep Fission, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Sitemap
Accessibility Statement
Cookie Declaration