Terrestrial Energy and Texas A&M reach agreement on reactor siting -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
North Anna power plant seeks ESP renewal
August 6, 2026, 12:32PM
Industry Update—August 2026
August 6, 2026, 9:31AM
Ontario invests in medical radioisotope production at McMaster
August 6, 2026, 7:03AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Westinghouse updates: AP1000 potential, IPO, Amentum partnership
August 5, 2026, 12:33PM
Knoxville’s nuclear workshop opens with a full house and a long to-do list
August 5, 2026, 10:10AM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Uranium prices steady as EIA releases annual market report
August 5, 2026, 7:12AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
Advanced Reactors
Terrestrial Energy and Texas A&M reach agreement on reactor siting
June 23, 2026, 7:06AM
Nuclear News
The Texas A&M–RELLIS Energy Proving Ground, in Bryan, Texas. (Photo: TAMUS)
Terrestrial Energy has signed ground lease and research agreements with the Texas A&M University System (TAMUS) to exclusively use about 77 acres of land at the Texas A&M–RELLIS campus, in Bryan, Texas, for development of the company’s Integral Molten Salt Reactor (IMSR). The agreements give Terrestrial Energy control of the site and provide support for completion of site characterization work, environmental evaluations, and testing and research activities related to the IMSR.
The work at the RELLIS campus will generate the site data needed to submit an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a construction permit for an IMSR plant and associated facilities. Late last year, the NRC issued a safety evaluation approving Terrestrial Energy’s IMSR principal design criteria.
RELLIS Energy Proving Ground: The RELLIS Energy Proving Ground is described on its website as an “innovation and technology campus” that was established by TAMUS “to bridge the gap between concept and deployment [by bringing] together applied research, industry collaboration, and operational realism in a controlled yet dynamic setting.”
The RELLIS site is meant to serve “as a catalyst for innovation across public and private sectors,” the website continues.
Terrestrial’s plans: Last year, Terrestrial Energy signed a memorandum of understanding with TAMUS and became part of the RELLIS Energy Proving Ground initiative. It is one of four advanced reactor developers that TAMUS has invited to the RELLIS campus.
The Charlotte, N.C.–based company has opened an office for engineering and project management at the RELLIS site to provide direction for the multiple activities that are planned there. The company has also joined the Greater Brazos Partnership to help support the development and deployment of advanced nuclear energy in Texas.
Terrestrial Energy is developing its IMSR technology for cogeneration plants that can generate electricity and high-temperature heat—as high as 1,085°F (585°C)—to serve various direct industrial applications. An IMSR plant is designed to deliver 392 MW of electricity and 882 MW of thermal power on a footprint of only 17.3 acres (7 hectares), allowing for siting flexibility and minimal environmental impact.
In May, the company signed an MOU with Riot Platforms to develop large-scale data center projects powered by multiple IMSR plants totaling as much as 4 GW of generating capacity. According to the company, its IMSR plants could use natural gas “as a bridge fuel for early commercial operations and enhanced supply resilience.”
DOE projects: The Department of Energy has selected Terrestrial Energy’s IMSR technology for its Reactor Pilot Program , which has the goal of fast-tracking the commercial licensing of advanced nuclear reactors. The new agreements with TAMUS will help support two partnership projects that Terrestrial Energy has with DOE for IMSR development— TETRA (focused on demonstration of a pilot reactor) and TEFLA (to demonstrate fuel salt production).
Terrestrial Energy CEO Simon Irish called the agreements with TAMUS “foundational to the commercial IMSR plant development at A&M-RELLIS,” saying that they “leverage the engineering and technology excellence within the A&M System.”
Calling energy demand “one of the defining challenges of our time,” Glenn Hegar, chancellor of TAMUS, said, “The work underway at the RELLIS campus shows how our universities, agencies, researchers, and industry partners can deliver practical solutions that strengthen the grid, support economic growth, and improve lives.”
Tags:
imsr integral molten salt reactor rellis small modular reactors smr tamu tamus terrestrial energy texas texas a&m university
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
Long Beach is first port to partner with MARAD on maritime reactors
July 28, 2026, 9:14AM
Nuclear News
The Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration has signed a first-of-a-kind memorandum of cooperation (MOC) with the Port of Long Beach, in southern California, to advance the...
Texas A&M welcomes uranium conversion research
July 22, 2026, 6:57AM
Nuclear News
The Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station (TEES) has signed a research agreement with Quantum Leap Energy (QLE) “to advance and de-risk the commercial production of high-purity...
Sizewell B gets 20-year life extension; SMR agreements signed around the world
July 13, 2026, 10:48AM
Nuclear News
Sizewell B, on the Suffolk coast of England, has been granted a 20-year life extension. The nuclear power plant, which began operating in 1995, will now remain in operation until 2055....
The deadline arrives: Checking in on the Reactor Pilot Program
July 2, 2026, 3:56PM
Nuclear News
On May 23, 2025, President Trump signed Executive Order 14301, “Reforming Nuclear Reactor Testing at the DOE,” which instructed the Department of Energy to create a Reactor Pilot Program...
Palisades: Restart projects, Holtec IPO, lawsuit dismissal—but no restart date
July 8, 2026, 9:28AM
Nuclear News
The ongoing work to restart Holtec’s Palisades nuclear power plant, which last operated in 2022, has transitioned out of large-scale projects and into smaller activities, plant owner and...
NEA: “Transformative scenario” is needed to reach COP28 goal by 2050
July 8, 2026, 7:17AM
Nuclear News
In 2023, more than 20 countries at the World Climate Action Summit of the 28th Conference of the Parties to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) set the goal of tripling...
Polish company SGE hopes to deploy 14 BWRX-300 reactors in U.K.
July 7, 2026, 7:14AM
Nuclear News
Synthos Green Energy, a development and investment company headquartered in Warsaw, Poland, has announced a proposal to deploy 14 GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear Energy BWRX-300 small modular...
Holtec and EDF submit proposal to deploy SMR-300 at Cottam, Nottinghamshire
June 29, 2026, 7:13AM
Nuclear News
Jupiter, Fla.–headquartered Holtec International has announced that it and London-based EDF Energy have jointly submitted a proposal to the government of the United Kingdom for deployment of...
Elementl plans Ohio nuclear plant; Oklo, Centrus sign Ohio-centered LOI
June 22, 2026, 7:10AM
Nuclear News
Nuclear project developer Elementl Power announced on June 18 its plans to build a nuclear power plant in southeast Ohio with a planned capacity of up to 1.5 GW.Elementl already has a reactor...
A flurry of nuclear developments in Sweden—state aid, SMR selections, legislation
June 18, 2026, 12:20PM
Nuclear News
Within the span of two weeks, three Swedish companies—Blykalla, Studsvik, and Nordic Baseload Power—submitted applications to their country’s government for state aid for their...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media