International banks express support for nuclear expansion - World Nuclear Association
JOIN US
SHOP
MEMBERS LOGIN
NUCLEAR INFORMATION
Information Library
A library of resources related to the Nuclear industry.
Reactor Database
Information on nuclear reactors from around the globe.
Essentials
Nuclear technology, radiation,and uranium.
Publications
Reports, guides and books from the World Nuclear Association.
Net Zero Nuclear
We advocate for tripling nuclear energy capacity by 2050
Financing Nuclear
Bridging the gap between finance and nuclear.
Subscribe to receive our
enewsletter and updates
Please select the mailing
you wish to subscribe to:
WNN Daily
WNN Weekly
Events
Press
News and Media
ABOUT US
Our Mission
Information on the leadership, organisation and secretariat of the World Nuclear Association.
Leadership
World Nuclear Association Members appoint the Director General and elect a Board of Management.
Membership
Which companies are members of the World Nuclear Association, and what could you gain from membership.
At Work
At Work is an annual report of World Nuclear Association's activities.
Vacancies
Join us and contribute to the Association’s goals and mission.
World Nuclear University
Inspiring, empowering and connecting generations of nuclear leaders
Subscribe to receive our
enewsletter and updates
Please select the mailing
you wish to subscribe to:
WNN Daily
WNN Weekly
Events
Press
Working Groups
EVENTS
SHOP
MEMBERS LOGIN
HOME / Net Zero Nuclear / news / International banks express support for nuclear expansion
International banks express support for nuclear expansion
Updated Tuesday, 14 October 2025
In December 2023, the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai saw the 198 signatory countries to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change call for accelerating the deployment of low-emission energy technologies including nuclear power for deep and rapid decarbonisation, particularly in hard-to-abate sectors such as industry. In addition, 25 countries at COP28 pledged to work towards tripling global nuclear power capacity to reach net-zero by 2050.
To access the pledge, please visit Tripling Statement of Support by Financial Institutions .
September 2024 - At New York Climate Week , a group of 14 financial institutions on Monday stated their recognition that global civil nuclear energy projects have an important role to play in the transition to a low-carbon economy. They further expressed support for long-term objectives of growing nuclear power generation and expanding the broader nuclear industry to accelerate the generation of clean electrons to support the energy transition.
The institutions include: Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Ares Management, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Brookfield, Citi, Credit Agricole CIB, Goldman Sachs, Guggenheim Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley, Rothschild & Co, Segra Capital Management , and Societe Generale .
"Capital markets and financing can play a critical role in developing and growing nuclear energy projects worldwide. Financial institutions can provide experience, global presence, services and solutions to support the industry," according to World Nuclear Association .
Opening the event, John Podesta, Senior Advisor for International Climate Policy to President Biden, said: "Our collective mission is clear - nuclear energy is clean energy, and if we are to ensure a liveable planet, build secure, sustainable supply chains for clean energy and bolster prosperity around the world, we need to make sure that nuclear energy does its part. I know we can make it happen - as long as we work together."
Slovenian Prime Minister Robert Golob added, "The only riddle left to solve is the financial side, the financial costs. Financial markets need to adapt and develop new financial instruments in order for nuclear energy to become competitive with other CO2-free energy sources."
"It is time to take concrete action towards necessary expansion of nuclear energy," said Sweden's Minister for Energy, Business and Industry and Deputy Prime Minister Ebba Busch. "The Swedish government is exploring a proposed financing model which includes government-backed loans, contracts-for-difference (CfDs) and risk-sharing mechanisms. The aim of the proposal is to significantly improve the conditions for nuclear new build in Sweden and with it, a more sustainable future."
Last month, a Swedish government study proposed that state aid be given to companies for investments in new nuclear power following an application procedure. It said a new legislative act should regulate conditions for receiving the support, the support measures, and what an application must contain.
James Schaefer, senior managing director of Guggenheim Securities, said: "New nuclear power is both clean and safe, and more importantly proven, with a number of nations now operating highly advanced and commercially viable third and fourth-generation fission technologies. It is essential that we accelerate the progression of planned projects into plants on the ground given the huge demand coming down the line for data centres and AI technologies. This will require nuclear companies, plant owners, data centre and technology companies, together with banks and financial institutions to collaborate closely."
"Including nuclear energy as a zero-carbon technology alongside renewables is essential to meeting the world's carbon reduction goals and ensuring that heavy industrial manufacturers like Nucor have a reliable and clean electricity supply to continue growing, prospering, and providing high-paying jobs," said Benjamin Pickett, vice president and general manager of public affairs and government relations at Nucor Corporation.
"Since COP28 in Dubai last year, we have witnessed a step change in momentum across the nuclear sector, buoyed by a significant increase in demand for clean electrons for data centres and AI, with global power demand for this sector alone set to double by 2026," said Mohamed Al Hammadi , Managing Director and CEO of the Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation and chairman of World Nuclear Association.
"With the support of 14 global banks and financial institutions witnessed this morning on the sidelines of New York Climate Week , it is clear that not only is nuclear energy viewed as a crucial enabler to decarbonise the power sector, but it also fits the profile for sustainable and transition financing, especially as we now see multiple nuclear plants being delivered efficiently, providing confidence to the market and a clear market signal that nuclear is a proven, bankable route to energy security and net zero in parallel."
Last week, ten industry associations issued a communiqu&eacute; during the second Roadmaps to New Nuclear conference in Paris, organised by the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency. They called on all OECD member states to set out clear plans for nuclear energy deployment. Among the eight key areas highlighted by the associations were: ensuring ready access to national and international climate finance mechanisms for nuclear development; ensuring that multilateral financial institutions include nuclear energy in their investment portfolios; and providing clarity to investors on the funding and investment recovery mechanisms available for nuclear projects and including nuclear energy in clean energy financing mechanisms.
Sama Bilbao y Le&oacute;n, Director General of World Nuclear Association , welcomed Monday's announcement from leaders in the global finance community. "Now we need to see today's commitment translate to changes in lending policies and greater access for nuclear to sustainable finance mechanisms. Nuclear offers investors long-term returns and a means of tackling the world's urgent and growing need for abundant, affordable, 24/7 clean energy.
"Today was a major step forward. Meeting the goal of tripling nuclear output will require the commitment and ingenuity of policy makers, financial leaders, the nuclear industry, and many others in a coalition of the ambitious."
OUR ASSOCIATION
Our Mission
Leadership
Our Members
Vacancies
Contact Us
ADDRESS
York House, 23 Kingsway, London, WC2B 6UJ, United Kingdom
GENERAL ENQUIRIES
t: +44 (0)20 7451 1520
f: +44 (0)20 7839 1501
e: info@world-nuclear.org
MEMBERSHIP ENQUIRIES
Member support members@world-nuclear.org
Joining enquiries enrolment@world-nuclear.org
MEDIA ENQUIRIES
Henry Preston
t: +44 (0)20 7451 1523
e: press@world-nuclear.org
CONNECT WITH US
Privacy Notice Cookies Policy Reuse of World Nuclear Association Content
&copy; 2016-2026 World Nuclear Association, registered in England and Wales, number 01215741.