DOE selects TVA and Holtec for SMR awards -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
North Anna power plant seeks ESP renewal
August 6, 2026, 12:32PM
Industry Update—August 2026
August 6, 2026, 9:31AM
Ontario invests in medical radioisotope production at McMaster
August 6, 2026, 7:03AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Westinghouse updates: AP1000 potential, IPO, Amentum partnership
August 5, 2026, 12:33PM
Knoxville’s nuclear workshop opens with a full house and a long to-do list
August 5, 2026, 10:10AM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Uranium prices steady as EIA releases annual market report
August 5, 2026, 7:12AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
Advanced Reactors
DOE selects TVA and Holtec for SMR awards
December 3, 2025, 3:00PM
Nuclear News
Image: DOE
The Department of Energy has selected the Tennessee Valley Authority and Holtec Government Services to support the early deployments of light water small modular reactors in the United States. The companies will each receive as much as $400 million in federal cost-shared funding to advance their initial SMR projects in Tennessee and Michigan, respectively, including follow-on projects and associated supply chains.
Executive order goals: In announcing the selections, Secretary of Energy Chris Wright said that they will help advance the goals of President Trump’s executive orders on nuclear energy. “President Trump has made clear that America is going to build more energy, not less, and nuclear is central to that mission,” he said. “Advanced light water SMRs will give our nation the reliable, round-the-clock power we need to fuel the president’s manufacturing boom, support data centers and AI growth, and reinforce a stronger, more secure electric grid. These awards ensure we can deploy these reactors as soon as possible.”
TVA: The federal funding will assist TVA in its plans to deploy a GE Vernova Hitachi BWRX-300 SMR at its Clinch River site in Tennessee, and to deploy other SMRs in partnership with Indiana Michigan Power and Elementl. In addition, the funds will boost TVA’s partnership activities with Scot Forge, North American Forgemasters, BWX Technologies, Aecon, Duke Energy, Oak Ridge Associated Universities, and the Electric Power Research Institute.
TVA president and CEO Don Moul said, “This award affirms TVA’s continued leadership in shaping the nation’s nuclear energy future. With DOE’s support and the strength of our partners, we’re accelerating the deployment of next-generation nuclear—reducing financial risk to consumers and strengthening U.S. energy security. This is how we deliver reliable, affordable energy and real opportunity for American families.”
Holtec: For Holtec, the federal funding will aid plans to deploy two SMR-300 reactors at its Palisades nuclear power plant in Covert, Mich. These reactors have been dubbed Pioneer 1 and 2. Holtec intends the deployment to demonstrate viability for additional SMR-300 orders in the United States and internationally. Holtec is partnering with Hyundai Engineering & Construction on a “one-stop-shop” approach that covers reactor construction, deployment, operation, supply chain, and power selling.
According to a Holtec statement, “The DOE’s support is an essential enabler of the Palisades SMR-300 project, moving it from development to deployment by building on the government’s prior support for Holtec’s SMR technology under the 2020 DOE Advanced Reactor Demonstration Program (ARDP) Risk Reduction for Future Demonstrations to support commercial readiness.”
March solicitation: The DOE’s selections of TVA and Holtec follow up on the March reissuing of a $900 million solicitation to de-risk the deployment of Gen III+ light water SMRs. That funding was originally offered in October 2024 under the Biden administration, but the DOE modified the solicitation to better align the agency’s Gen III+ SMR program with the expressed nuclear energy policies and “energy dominance” goals of the Trump administration.
Tags:
bwrx-300 chris wright clinch river ge vernova hitachi holtec palisades smr smr-300 tva
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
Holtec moves forward on Oyster Creek, looks to Gulf South
August 5, 2026, 3:06PM
Nuclear News
In the past week, Holtec has made two significant announcements: the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has approved its license termination plan (LTP) for Oyster Creek nuclear power plant, and the...
Long Beach is first port to partner with MARAD on maritime reactors
July 28, 2026, 9:14AM
Nuclear News
The Department of Transportation’s Maritime Administration has signed a first-of-a-kind memorandum of cooperation (MOC) with the Port of Long Beach, in southern California, to advance the...
Saudi Arabia, U.S. sign civil nuclear energy deal
July 23, 2026, 8:08AM
Nuclear News
This story has been updated to include a July 23 quote from President Trump.The United States and Saudi Arabia have reached a civil nuclear cooperation agreement that could allow the Middle...
Palisades: Restart projects, Holtec IPO, lawsuit dismissal—but no restart date
July 8, 2026, 9:28AM
Nuclear News
The ongoing work to restart Holtec’s Palisades nuclear power plant, which last operated in 2022, has transitioned out of large-scale projects and into smaller activities, plant owner and...
Polish company SGE hopes to deploy 14 BWRX-300 reactors in U.K.
July 7, 2026, 7:14AM
Nuclear News
Synthos Green Energy, a development and investment company headquartered in Warsaw, Poland, has announced a proposal to deploy 14 GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear Energy BWRX-300 small modular...
Clinch River construction permit recommendation follows safety evaluation
July 1, 2026, 11:59AM
Nuclear News
Staff at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission have recommended the agency issue a construction permit to the Tennessee Valley Authority for its plans to construct a GE Vernova Hitachi Nuclear...
Sizewell B gets 20-year life extension; SMR agreements signed around the world
July 13, 2026, 10:48AM
Nuclear News
Sizewell B, on the Suffolk coast of England, has been granted a 20-year life extension. The nuclear power plant, which began operating in 1995, will now remain in operation until 2055....
NEA: “Transformative scenario” is needed to reach COP28 goal by 2050
July 8, 2026, 7:17AM
Nuclear News
In 2023, more than 20 countries at the World Climate Action Summit of the 28th Conference of the Parties to the U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP28) set the goal of tripling...
NRC launches environmental review of Holtec’s new-build plans for Palisades
June 16, 2026, 3:04PM
Nuclear News
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is set to prepare an environmental impact statement for its review of Holtec International’s application to site two Holtec SMR-300 reactors at the...
Elementl plans Ohio nuclear plant; Oklo, Centrus sign Ohio-centered LOI
June 22, 2026, 7:10AM
Nuclear News
Nuclear project developer Elementl Power announced on June 18 its plans to build a nuclear power plant in southeast Ohio with a planned capacity of up to 1.5 GW.Elementl already has a reactor...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media