US firm begins drilling for world's first mile-deep nuclear reactor
Skip to content
Search
Energy Science Military Health Transportation Space Innovation Culture AI & Robotics
News Videos Podcasts
Photo Stories Webinars Quiz
Newsletters From daily news and career tips to monthly insights on AI, sustainability, software, and more—pick what matters and get it in your inbox.
Access expert insights, exclusive content, and a deeper dive into engineering and innovation all with fewer ads or a completely ad-free experience.
Columns Case Studies
Research Interviews
Engineers Directory
About Us Advertise Contact FAQ All Rights Reserved, IE Media, Inc.
Follow Us On
NEWS VIDEOS ENERGY SCIENCE MILITARY HEALTH TRANSPORTATION SPACE INNOVATION CULTURE
Search
Categories Energy Science Military Health Transportation Space Innovation Culture AI & Robotics
News Videos Podcasts Photo Stories Webinars Quiz
Newsletters From daily news and career tips to monthly insights on AI, sustainability, software, and more—pick what matters and get it in your inbox.
Access expert insights, exclusive content, and a deeper dive into engineering and innovation all with fewer ads or a completely ad-free experience.
Columns Case Studies
Research Interviews
Engineers Directory
About Us Advertise
Contact FAQ
Follow Us On
All Rights Reserved, IE Media, Inc.
Energy
World’s first underground nuclear borehole drilling starts for US firm’s Gravity reactor
The startup’s design replaces massive surface containment by leveraging natural geology.
Read Next: Four cryogenic reactor fueling technologies to unlock continuous fusion power in US By Aman Tripathi
Energy Mar 12, 2026 07:18 AM EST
By Aman Tripathi
Mar 12, 2026 07:18 AM EST
The drill rig at the Deep Fission site in Parsons, Kansas. Deep Fission
Deep Fission, a California-based nuclear startup, has officially moved from concept to construction.
The company recently announced that it has begun drilling the first of three data acquisition wells for its innovative underground nuclear pilot project.
The drilling marks a significant milestone for the &#8220;Gravity&#8221; reactor, which is a 15-megawatt (MWe) small modular reactor (SMR) designed to operate a mile beneath the Earth’s surface.
Turning the first bit
The first well at the Great Plains Industrial Park in Parsons, Kansas is being drilled to a depth of approximately 6,000 feet with a diameter of eight inches.
This initial phase follows the successful completion of the drilling pad and is designed to gather critical geological, hydrological, and thermal data.
“Drilling our first borehole is a major step forward,” said Liz Muller, CEO and Co-Founder of Deep Fission.
“It represents the shift from concept to construction and begins the process of demonstrating a fundamentally new approach to nuclear energy deployment.”
Eliminating need for massive structures
The startup’s proprietary design eliminates the need for massive surface containment structures by leveraging the Earth’s natural geology.
By placing the reactor at the bottom of a deep borehole, the design achieves two major engineering breakthroughs.
More from Energy
See All
Energy China’s 1,200 MW nuclear reactor unit successfully completes cold test milestone
Energy Four cryogenic reactor fueling technologies to unlock continuous fusion power in US
Energy 97.9% efficiency, 1,000+ cycles: New sodium-ion battery tech skips mechanical cooling
Energy DOE launches supercomputing effort to recycle 95,000 metric tons of used nuclear fuel
Energy Lunar helium-3 eyed as fuel for 50-MWe next-gen US fusion plant planned for 2031
At a depth of one mile, the column of water above the reactor naturally provides the 160 atmospheres of pressure required for operation. This automatically removes the need for expensive surface pressure vessels.
In addition to this, the surrounding bedrock provides billions of tons of natural shielding and containment. This, in turn, significantly reduces the project’s surface footprint and enhances security.
“Each Gravity Reactor is installed one mile underground, where surrounding geology provides passive shielding and natural containment, reducing the need for above-ground megastructures,” explained the company.
Fueling and financing the project
The drilling campaign is the latest in a string of rapid developments for the company. Deep Fission recently signed a pivotal agreement with Urenco USA to purchase low-enriched uranium (LEU) from their Eunice, New Mexico facility, which will power the testing and demonstration phases.
The project is further supported by $80 million in new financing intended to scale production for AI-driven data centers and US electricity grids.
The modular nature of the system allows for significant scalability. While a single borehole produces 15 MWe, the company notes that 100 reactors co-located on a single site could produce 1.5 GWe—enough to power large-scale industrial hubs or massive data center complexes—while requiring only a fraction of the land used by traditional surface plants.
The project is part of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Reactor Pilot Program, which aims to see advanced reactors achieve criticality by July 4, 2026. Plus, Deep Fission estimates its approach can slash nuclear plant construction costs by up to 80 percent.
“By leveraging established supply chains and techniques, Deep Fission estimates this approach can reduce construction costs by approximately 70–80 percent compared to traditional nuclear plants,” Deep Fission highlighted.
The three-well program will provide the subsurface data necessary to inform final engineering designs and regulatory planning as Deep Fission moves toward full commercialization.
Recommended Articles
Get the latest in engineering, tech, space & science - delivered daily to your inbox.
Sign up for free
By subscribing, you agree to our Terms of Use and Policies
You may unsubscribe at any time.
1 COMMENT
Subscribe to
Today!
Access to exclusive content, expert insights and a deeper dive into engineering and tech. No ads, no limits.
Explore Now!
By Aman Tripathi
An active and versatile journalist and news editor. He has covered regular and breaking news for several leading publications and news media, including The Hindu, Economic Times, Tomorrow Makers, and many more. Aman holds expertise in politics, travel, and tech news, especially in AI, advanced algorithms, and blockchain, with a strong curiosity about all things that fall under science and tech.
TRENDING LATEST
1 Four cryogenic reactor fueling technologies to unlock continuous fusion power in US
2 97.9% efficiency, 1,000+ cycles: New sodium-ion battery tech skips mechanical cooling
3 Meta's Muse Code uses Muse Spark 1.2 in a 1,000+ tool-call GPU optimization test
4 DOE launches supercomputing effort to recycle 95,000 metric tons of used nuclear fuel
5 Lunar helium-3 eyed as fuel for 50-MWe next-gen US fusion plant planned for 2031
TRENDING LATEST
1 Four cryogenic reactor fueling technologies to unlock continuous fusion power in US
2 97.9% efficiency, 1,000+ cycles: New sodium-ion battery tech skips mechanical cooling
3 Meta's Muse Code uses Muse Spark 1.2 in a 1,000+ tool-call GPU optimization test
4 DOE launches supercomputing effort to recycle 95,000 metric tons of used nuclear fuel
5 Lunar helium-3 eyed as fuel for 50-MWe next-gen US fusion plant planned for 2031
Search
Premium
INNOVATION
Science
Space
Health
Transportation
All
ENTERTAINMENT
Culture
Gaming
All
GUIDES
How to
Lists
Reviews
Career
All
MILITARY
ENERGY
VIDEOS
NEWSLETTERS
IE ACADEMY
WEBINARS
PHOTO STORY
PODCASTS
ENGINEERS DIRECTORY
About Us
Subscription
Contact Us
Advertise
Log in
Sign up
Follow
Follow Us On
Follow Us On
Energy Science Military Health Transportation Space Innovation Culture
News Videos Podcasts Photo Stories Webinars Engineers Directory
IE+ Premium Columns Case Studies Research Interviews
Newsletters IE Academy IE Awards
About Us Advertise Contact Us Subscription Policies Site Map
Energy Science Military Health Transportation Space Innovation Culture News Videos Podcasts Photo Stories Webinars Engineers Directory IE+ Premium Columns Case Studies Research Interviews
Newsletters IE Academy IE Awards About Us Advertise Contact Us Subscription Policies Site Map
Privacy Policy | AI and Ethics | Editorial Policy | Terms of Services | Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Privacy Manager
© Copyright 2025 | IE Media, Inc. | All Rights Reserved
Privacy Policy | AI and Ethics | Editorial Policy | Terms of Services
Do Not Sell My Personal Information | Privacy Manager
© Copyright 2025 | IE Media, Inc. | All Rights Reserved