KRONOS MMR | NANO Nuclear Energy
(212) 634-9206
info@nanonuclearenergy.com
X
X
About Us
About Us
Company Leadership
Board Members
Industry Memberships
Press Kit
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Microreactors
KRONOS MMR
ZEUS
LOKI MMR
Subsidiaries
STS Nuclear
Annular Linear Induction Pumps
NANO Nuclear Space
Advanced Fuel Transportation
HALEU Energy Fuel
Investors
Investor Relations
Company News
In the Media
IP Product Pipeline
Collaborative Agreements
Careers
Select Page
Overview
KRONOS MMR™ is a 4th Generation nuclear energy system that is designed to deliver safe, clean, and cost-effective electricity to users anywhere.
The KRONOS MMR™ is designed to provide carbon-free, high-quality process heat and/or electricity, for co-located industries such as data and A.I. centers, chemical and industrial operations, and population centers. KRONOS MMR™ is designed as a stationary installation capable of producing power up to 45 MWth in a single-unit configuration, while a multi-unit configuration can readily deliver giga-watt level power.
The modular system is capable of being transported by road and assembled on site, and is designed to form part of a multi-system deployment to allow for scaling and lowering levelized cost of electricity.
The proprietary KRONOS MMR™ is anchored by many issued and pending or published patents, including in the U.S. and Canada, as well as associated trademarks.
NANO Nuclear has extended an existing KRONOS MMR™ collaboration with the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign with the aim of demonstrating the reactor’s high technology readiness level at the University. In parallel, NANO Nuclear will continue the MMR® licensing process with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission . Pending Canadian governmental approvals of the acquisition, further demonstrations of KRONOS MMR™ are expected to take place at the Canadian Nuclear Laboratories. KRONOS MMR™ is the first small modular reactor to enter the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission’s formal licensing review.

3.5-15 MWe
Electrical Power

10-45 MWth
Thermal Power

300 MWyr
Energy Content
APPLICATIONS
Power Anything
Like batteries, multiple KRONOS MMR™ units can be linked together to provide as much power as needed. Multiple KRONOS MMR™ units can power communities in the middle of nowhere, industrial sites, and even large-scale AI datacenters. The modules can be combined in flexible ways for different sites and needs, including integration with micro grids.
Need more power? Just add more units.
1. Plant Separation
KRONOS MMR™ consists of two plants, the Nuclear Plant and the Adjacent Plant. The Nuclear Plant contains multiple MMR units including all the equipment required to transport the heat to the Adjacent Plant. The Adjacent Plant contains the equipment that converts heat to electricity or process heat as required.
2. Helium
Helium gas is the KRONOS MMR's™ primary coolant. The helium passes through the nuclear core and is heated by the controlled nuclear fission process. The helium then transports the heat away from the core to the primary heat exchanger, a smaller pressure vessel to the side of the reactor.
3. Molten Salt Thermal Storage
Heat from the reactor is stored in molten salt tanks similar to concentrated solar powerplants. When demand rises, hot molten salt is used to generate steam and power an electrical turbine. KRONOS MMR™ will typically store up to 10 hours of power plant thermal output and can be supplemented with hydrogen burners. The use of molten salt thermal storage allows for significant flexibility in the supply of both electricity and process heat. While the KRONOS MMR™ unit operates at constant power, electricity and heat are delivered on-demand from the power plant.
4. High Temperature Heat
KRONOS MMR's™ high temperature heat has many uses beyond generation of electricity. District heating, desalination, and process heat are all possible with the KRONOS MMR™. Any industrial process that uses heat can be fully or partially decarbonized using an KRONOS MMR™. Steam temperatures of 660 °C are simple to deliver, and temperatures up 950 °C are possible in future MMR variants.
9.9-20%
Enrichment
3 – 6 MPa
Pressure
660 °C
Steam Outlet
LOCATION
Power Up Anywhere
KRONOS MMR™ uses no water and has no need for an electrical grid or infrastructure support. KRONOS MMR™ is compatible with the harshest climates from arctic to desert to tropical.
Standalone
KRONOS MMR™ can operate as a stand-alone off-grid plant to deliver fully dispatchable and resilient power or can be connected to existing grids.
NANO Nuclear Energy Inc. (NASDAQ: NNE) is an advanced technology-driven nuclear energy company seeking to become a commercially focused, diversified, and vertically integrated company across the following business lines: (i) cutting edge portable and stationary microreactor technologies, (ii) nuclear fuel fabrication, (iii) nuclear fuel transportation, (iv) nuclear applications for space, and (v) nuclear industry consulting services . NANO Nuclear believes it is the first nuclear microreactor company to be listed publicly in the U.S.
Led by a world-class nuclear engineering team, NANO Nuclear’s reactor products in development include its lead technology, the patented KRONOS MMR™ Energy System , a stationary high-temperature gas-cooled reactor that is in construction permit pre-application with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), ZEUS™ , a solid core battery reactor, and the space-capable, portable LOKI MMR™ , each representing advanced developments in clean energy solutions that are modular, on-demand capable, advanced nuclear microreactors.
Our Subsidiaries:
Annular Linear Induction Pumps
NANO Nuclear Space Inc.
Advanced Fuel Transportation Inc.
HALEU Energy Fuel Inc.
Important Links
About Us
Microreactors
Company Leadership
Board Members
Company News
In the Media
Investors
Press Kit
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Recent Posts
NANO Nuclear to Hold Third Quarter Business Update Webcast on August 12, 2026
NANO Nuclear Energy Selected by AFWERX for SBIR Phase I Award to Advance KRONOS MMR™ for the U.S. Air Force
NANO Nuclear and Fortil Advance Engineering Collaboration for the KRONOS MMR™ Fuel Handling &#038; Storage System
Subscribe to our Newsletter
© NANO NUCLEAR ENERGY, INC. 2026 | All rights Reserved.
Manage Consent
To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent
Share This