ANS-UPRM Student Section advocates for Puerto Rican nuclear -- ANS / Nuclear Newswire
Topics
Advanced Reactors
Advocacy
Conferences
Decontamination & Decommissioning
Education
Environmental Remediation
Fuel
Fusion
Industry
International
Isotopes & Radiation
Nonproliferation
Nuclear History
People
Policy
Power & Operations
Research & Applications
Security
Standards
Supply Chain
Transportation
Waste Management
Webinars
Workforce
Sources
Nuclear News
Radwaste Solutions
ANS News
ANS Nuclear Cafe
Sponsored Content
Press Releases
Sign Up
Buyers Guide
Access Online Buyers Guide
Manage/Create Company Listings
Advertise in Buyers Guides
Advertise
Headlines
For You
Study mapping U-10Zr porosity informs metallic fuel design
August 17, 2026, 12:28PM
Supplier Showcase focus: MUR DVR
August 17, 2026, 11:37AM
Diablo Canyon receives partial Civil Nuclear Credit payment
August 17, 2026, 9:36AM
A message from Gutor
GUTOR 80: UPS, Battery Charger, & Inverter Solutions for Nuclear Applications, Built to ASME NQA-1
X-energy, TerraPower share updates on advanced reactor projects
August 17, 2026, 7:11AM
Front-end nuclear fuel supply cooperation: Turning allied interdependence into strategic advantage
August 14, 2026, 4:04PM
New measurement of diamond phase change could mean increased ICF energy gain
August 14, 2026, 2:10PM
A message from Studsvik
Transforming Nuclear Fuel Management with Intelligent Automation
Cleanup work progresses with pump removal at Hanford Tank Farms
August 14, 2026, 9:56AM
For personalized headlines, please log in/create an account .
Latest Issue &mdash; Aug 2026
Latest Issue &mdash; Jan 2026
Ageing nuclear assets don't have to mean higher maintenance costs. Discover how HVTS® cladding helps extend the life of PWR secondary system components, reduce outage duration, support ALARA principles, and protect against FAC, erosion-corrosion and other degradation mechanisms. Learn more.
Learn More
Policy
ANS-UPRM Student Section advocates for Puerto Rican nuclear
June 3, 2026, 1:04PM
Nuclear News
ANS-UPRM President Francisco Paravisini Domenech (center left) with legislators, Professor Carlos Marín, and heads from First American Nuclear and Zap Energy after a recent public hearing in Puerto Rico’s House of Representatives. (Photo: ANS-UPRM)
The American Nuclear Society Student Section at the University of Puerto Rico–Mayagüez (ANS-UPRM) recently testified in the Puerto Rican House of Representatives on the opportunities nuclear power could provide for the island. Specifically, section president Francisco Paravisini Domenech advocated for the passage of Proyecto de la Cámara 1092, which would direct the Puerto Rican government to evaluate the deployment of small modular reactors, among other low-carbon technologies. (A Proyecto de la Cámara, or Chamber Project, is akin to a House bill.)
Bill details: If passed, C.P. 1092 would amend Puerto Rico’s Act No. 82 , Public Policy on Energy Diversification by Means of Sustainable and Alternative Renewable Energy in Puerto Rico Act. This act’s statement of motives explains that, currently, the vast majority of power generated in Puerto Rico comes from imported oil. (According to the International Energy Agency, in 2025, fossil-fueled power plants provided 93 percent of the island’s electricity generating capacity.) This causes consistent price volatility; significantly higher electricity prices, compared with most of the United States; and undesirable carbon emissions. To address those issues, the act aims to increase Puerto Rico’s energy security through investments in renewable power resources.
C.P. 1092 aims to redefine several key definitions throughout Act No. 82, in effect integrating nuclear power (likely through small modular reactors) into the portfolio of energy technologies Puerto Rico is working to deploy. The bill also orders the University of Puerto Rico to develop research programs that will evaluate the possibilities nuclear power could offer the island.
ANS tie-in: On May 22, Domenech joined Carlos Marín, professor of Radiological Safety and Radioactive Waste Management, to testify before the House Economic Development Commission, answering legislators’ questions regarding nuclear power and advocating for the passage of C.P. 1092.
Domenech told Nuclear News , “I, along with many others both inside and outside of ANS-UPRM, believe that the value of nuclear power in Puerto Rico is found in its ability to propulse the island toward having a safe, clean, resilient, and reliable energy source; lower energy prices; and energy independence.”
The public hearing was also attended by representatives of First American Nuclear and Zap Energy, who echoed Domenech’s sentiments. Marvi Matos Rodríguez, senior vice president of fusion technology at Zap, said that the bill “opens the door to research, academic preparation and informed evaluation of these technologies.” She added that renewable energy alone cannot “provide the firm energy needed by hospitals, manufacturers and the homes of 3 million people 24 hours a day.”
Domenech also told NN that advocating for C.P. 1092 is only one of the many ways the student section has promoted nuclear energy in Puerto Rico in the seven years since its founding. Broadly, that work has involved educational outreach that aims to erase the stigma around nuclear power, educate the public on the nuclear history of Puerto Rico , and make clear the positive impact its deployment could have. More specifically, Domenech also highlighted that ANS-UPRM has made connections with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission “in order to lobby the university administration into implementing the newly approved nuclear engineering minor.”
Tags:
ans-uprm puerto rico student section
Share:
LinkedIn Twitter Facebook Email
Related Articles
ANS approves formation of six student sections, one local section
June 11, 2026, 7:10AM
ANS News
Last week at the American Nuclear Society’s Annual Conference in Denver, Colo., the ANS Board of Directors approved the creation of six new ANS student sections and one new local section....
Exploring pros and cons of nuclear in Puerto Rico
October 23, 2024, 3:00PM
ANS Nuclear Cafe
An article on the Huffington Post examines the prospects for re-establishing nuclear energy in Puerto Rico, uncovering a mix of positive and negative attitudes toward nuclear power in the U.S....
ANS and its student groups respond to Hurricane Fiona in Puerto Rico
October 11, 2022, 7:04AM
ANS News
Hurricane Fiona slammed into Puerto Rico on September 18 with powerful winds and massive amounts of rain, resulting in mudslides, flooding, loss of power and water, wrecked homes and...
ANS Naval Academy student section hosts dinner, receives landmark
April 12, 2022, 12:00PM
ANS News
The Naval Academy ANS student section, with support from the Washington, D.C., local section, held its semiannual dinner on March 29 in Annapolis, Md. The event was attended by more than 100...
White House appointee sees advanced nuclear option for Puerto Rico
July 16, 2020, 12:43PM
Nuclear News
All energy sources, including small modular reactors, are being considered to meet Puerto Rico’s energy needs, U.S. Coast Guard Rear Admiral Peter J. Brown said on July 15 during the second...
Making the case for advanced reactors in Puerto Rico
June 23, 2020, 10:03AM
Nuclear News
The ANS Young Members Group and the Gateway for Accelerated Innovation in Nuclear (GAIN) on June 18 presented a webinar on the rapidly developing prospects for advanced nuclear in Puerto Rico....
Study: Advanced reactors a good fit for Puerto Rico
May 27, 2020, 10:10AM
Nuclear News
The Nuclear Alternative Project (NAP), a nonprofit group supporting the use of advanced reactors in Puerto Rico, has released the findings of a preliminary feasibility study undertaken to...
Receive Nuclear News Daily
Join ANS Today
Donate Today
Advancing nuclear science and technology for the benefit of humanity
Advertising Opportunities
Navigating Nuclear
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
YouTube
Pinterest
Nuclear Newswire
Email Lists
&copy; Copyright 2026 American Nuclear Society
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Invoices
Media