--- PAGE 1 ---
Sources of cost overrun in nuclear power plant construction call for a
new approach to engineering design
Philip Eash-Gates∗†, Magdalena M. Klemun∗†, Goksin Kavlak∗, James McNerney∗,
Jacopo Buongiorno ‡, Jessika E. Trancik∗§¶∥
Abstract
Nuclear plant costs in the U.S. have repeatedly exceeded projections. Here we use data covering ﬁve decades and
bottom-up cost modeling to identify the mechanisms behind this divergence. We observe that nth-of-a-kind plants
have been more, not less expensive than ﬁrst-of-a-kind plants. Soft factors external to standardized reactor hard-
ware, such as on-site labor supervision, contributed over half of the rapid cost rise from 1976-1987.
Relatedly,
reactor containment building costs more than doubled from 1976-2017, due only in part to safety regulations. Labor
productivity in recent plants is up to thirteen times lower than industry expectations. Our results point to a gap
between expected and realized costs stemming from low resilience to time- and site- dependent construction con-
ditions. Prospective models suggest reducing commodity usage and automating construction to increase resilience.
More generally, rethinking engineering design to relate design variables to cost change mechanisms could help deliver
real-world cost reductions for technologies with demanding on-site construction requirements.
DRAFT: not for citation or distribution.
1
Introduction
Nuclear power is often referenced as a potential so-
lution for helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
from electricity generation and industrial process heat-
ing, as required to achieve net zero emissions (e.g.,1,2,3,4).
Although concerns about safety and waste manage-
ment can aﬀect the public acceptance of nuclear power
plants5,6, and long-term waste management solutions are
still in development7,8, nuclear power’s life-cycle emis-
sions are comparable to other low-carbon options such as
solar and wind energy9, and nuclear power has the ability
to supply base-load electricity, relies on signiﬁcant ura-
nium resources, and shows low fuel price volatility and
operating costs compared to fossil-ﬁred power plants10,11.
The U.S. plays an important role in the global nuclear
industry in several ways. The U.S. pioneered the tech-
nology in the 1950s for naval submarine use and to this
day generates more electricity in nuclear plants than the
three next leading countries combined: France, China,
and Russia12. U.S. federal investment in nuclear research
∗Institute for Data, Systems and Society, Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology
†These authors contributed equally
‡Department
of
Nuclear
Science
and
Engineering,
Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology
§Santa Fe Institute
¶Lead Contact
∥Correspondence: trancik@mit.edu
and development is second highest among International
Energy Agency member countries13, and international
cost estimating guidelines are based heavily upon U.S.
reactor design and construction practices (e.g., the work
of the Economic Modeling Working Group of the Gener-
ation IV International Forum14).
However, the history of nuclear energy in the U.S. is one
of mixed results. Rapid capacity growth in the 1960s was
accompanied by signiﬁcant unit upscaling, followed by
operational improvements and rising capacity factors15.
But in the 1970s rising project durations and costs,
alongside studies on thermal pollution and low-level radi-
ation became a source of public controversy16. Following
the 1979 Three Mile Island accident, a long hiatus of nu-
clear construction began. Rising construction costs and
project delays have continued to aﬀect eﬀorts to expand
nuclear capacity in the U.S. since the 1970s17,18,19. A sur-
vey of plants begun after 1970 shows an average overnight
cost overrun of 241%19.
Since the 1990s, two nuclear
projects have begun construction, both two-reactor ex-
pansions of existing generating stations. The VC Summer
project in South Carolina was abandoned in 2017 with
sunk costs of $9B, and the Vogtle project in Georgia is
severely delayed. Current estimates place the total price
of the Vogtle expansion at $25B ($11,000/kW), almost
twice as high as the initial estimate of $14B, and costs
are anticipated to rise further20,21.
Challenges in nuclear construction are not unique to
the U.S. Recent projects in Finland (Olkiluoto 3) and
France (Flamanville 3) have also experienced cost escala-
tion, cost overrun, and schedule delays 22. Cost estimates
1
--- PAGE 2 ---
for a plant under construction in the United Kingdom
(Hinkley Point C) have been revised upwards23. In con-
trast to the experience in Western Europe and the U.S.,
however, China, Japan, and South Korea have achieved
construction durations shorter than the global median
since 1990 24,25,2. Cost and construction duration tend
to correlate (e.g.,26), but it should be noted that indepen-
dently veriﬁed cost data1 from these countries are largely
missing27,28.
Despite historical precedence for rising costs,
nu-
clear industry, government, and research agencies con-
tinue to forecast cost reductions in nuclear construc-
tion29,30,14,31,32,33. These entities make signiﬁcant invest-
ments in the development and commercialization of next-
generation reactor designs based on the expectation that
successive plants of standard design will cost less than
ﬁrst-of-a-kind plants34,2,35,14,36. This notion is applied to
all commercial reactors, though the anticipated cost re-
ductions are greatest for small modular reactors (SMR)
due to expected learning eﬀects in factory settings37,38,32.
The ﬁrst SMR has yet to be built.
The
projected
role
of
nuclear
power
in
many
decarbonization scenarios (e.g.,39,40) also stands in con-
trast to recent trends. In the U.S., nuclear power plants
provided roughly 20% of the electricity supply in 2019,
down from a reported peak of 23% in 1995, and roughly
50% of low-carbon electricity41,42, though the exact re-
ported values show a small amount of variation43. Low-
cost domestic natural gas supply and declining costs of
renewable power have put several plants at risk of pre-
mature retirement, and equipment replacements to ex-
tend plant lifetimes have proven challenging44. Four U.S.
plants have shut down despite possible license extensions,
and closure of 15-20 more plants is expected by 203045.
Other countries with aging nuclear infrastructure (e.g.,
Spain, the UK) are facing similar challenges25.
Previous literature has presented various hypotheses on
the causes of nuclear construction cost increases. These
studies fall into two groups: 1) studies of nuclear tech-
nology cost trends over time; 2) engineering cost mod-
els of nuclear power plants for a given design, at a given
point in time. By studying time series of overnight capital
costs, studies in the ﬁrst group have shown that nuclear
costs in the U.S. have increased before and after Three
Mile Island15, cost trends diﬀer across countries26,46, and
construction costs have increased even in countries with
comparatively short construction times47. Previous work
has reported cost reductions when the same ﬁrm built
multiple plants of the same model in France48 and stable
costs in Japan between 1980 and 2011, owing among other
factors to supportive national policies46.
Overall, the
majority of studies document construction cost increases
and conclude that the nuclear experience has been one of
1Cost data that is provided and audited by entities not actively
involved in plant procurement and construction (e.g., data from
international organizations or government agencies as opposed to
data from utilities and reactor equipment providers).
limited or even negative learning47,49,50,15,51.
Cost increases have been associated with reactor up-
scaling, with a lack of technology standardization, frag-
mented industry structure and plant ownership, and with
increasing plant complexity2 47,52,17,53. Studies of cost es-
calation in mega-projects more broadly have found that
nuclear power plant projects exhibit greater and more fre-
quent cost overruns and delays compared to other elec-
tricity generation infrastructure, which has been linked
to reduced modularity and more complex project gover-
nance compared to other technologies54,55.
By developing engineering cost models of nuclear re-
actors and plants, studies in the second group have
provided cost benchmarks for plant construction in
the U.S.56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63 and other countries (e.g.,64).
Other, forward-looking studies have outlined strategies
for cost reduction, such as modularization, oﬀ-site manu-
facturing, passive cooling, and advanced construction ma-
terials65,35,33,2. However, the focus of these studies has
been on aggregated cost measures such as total construc-
tion costs, which are important for comparing technolo-
gies but can mask the contribution of speciﬁc technolog-
ical developments, such as changes in engineering design
or labor productivity, to cost change over time. Studies
quantifying these contributions based on empirical data
are currently absent from the literature.
Both bottom-up engineering and top down models are
also used to develop standards for estimating individ-
ual nuclear plant costs66,36 or forecasting costs of spe-
ciﬁc reactor technologies14,31,32,35.
In response to cost
uncertainty, such guidelines have been developed to min-
imize ﬁnancial risk and provide consistent comparison
among available technologies.
Similarly, cost estimat-
ing guidelines are used in models for projecting industry-
wide growth and cost change at a national or global scale
across nuclear and non-nuclear energy technologies67,68,
and in global planning for climate change mitigation40,69.
Although cost estimating guidelines used in these stud-
ies generally assume costs will decline with experience,
empirical trends of nuclear construction indicate that
costs have escalated as industry experience has grown
47,49,50,15,51.
Studies that test the validity of model-
ing assumptions against empirical evidence are currently
largely missing.
In this paper we begin to address these gaps by
examining U.S. construction cost data from ﬁve decades
and modeling the cost evolution of entire plants and
of one major plant component, the reactor containment
building.
We present a collection of insights on cost
trends and the sources of these trends.
Contrary to
standard engineering estimates for expected cost declines,
we ﬁnd that costs have instead risen in the U.S. even for
plants of the same design class. This ﬁnding is missing
in previous literature. Next, we examine what types of
2Studies often consider increases in number of plant components,
new control systems, redundancy in equipment, and added safety
features to be indicative of increasing complexity.
2
--- PAGE 3 ---
costs contributed most to cost increases, using cost ac-
counting data on individual plant components and mech-
anistic models of cost change determinants. We ﬁnd that
declining labor productivity and increasing commodity
use were major contributors to cost increases. Overall a
common theme emerging from this analysis is the lack of
anticipation in engineering models of the cost-increasing
contributions of soft technology external to standard re-
actor hardware, in response to changing regulations and
other factors such as variable project-speciﬁc conditions.
Prospective modeling shows the potentially transforma-
tive eﬀect of re-thinking engineering design to adapt to
these factors, for example through reduced commodity
usage and automated construction processes.
2
Results
2.1
Rising costs of standard plant designs
Many nuclear power plant cost projections and esti-
mating guidelines assume that costs will decline as more
plants are built. Such projections are frequently stated
in terms of the costs of an nth-of-a-kind (NOAK) plant
relative to a ﬁrst-of-a-kind (FOAK) plant. That NOAK
plants will be less expensive than FOAK plants is often
posed as a “well-known fact” (e.g.,35,2), and this assump-
tion is reﬂected in a large number of projections and esti-
mating guidelines, typically expressed in terms of technol-
ogy learning rates.3 In its cost guidelines for advanced re-
actors, for example, Oak Ridge National Laboratory66,36
recommends that labor costs be projected with a learning
rate of 2% and equipment costs with a learning rate of
6% for NOAK reactors of any standard design with more
than 4.5 GWe of cumulative capacity installed. The Eco-
nomics Modeling Working Group (EMWG) of the Gen-
eration IV International Forum14 establish a guideline of
6% total cost reduction with every doubling of cumula-
tive capacity after 8 GWe. The academic and scientiﬁc
communities use similar learning rates to assess the role
of nuclear power in future energy strategies and green-
house gas mitigation scenarios (e.g.,70). Published esti-
mates range from 1% to 10%, with SMRs at the upper end
(e.g., Abdulla et al.32) due to expected cost beneﬁts of
factory fabrication. The emissions scenarios behind IPCC
climate modeling rely on nuclear learning rates between
1% and 7%, while global scenarios of the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) expect higher learning
rates40,69,31.
The prevalence and speciﬁcity of such projections may
be a reason why nuclear plants are commonly assumed to
3Technology costs are often ﬁt to a power law model C ∼x−b,
where x is the cumulative production of the technology. The learn-
ing rate LR is given by LR = 100(1 −2−b), and represents the
percent cost reduction associated with a doubling of cumulative
production under this model. A positive learning rate corresponds
to cost reduction. Due to their wide use learning rates provide a
convenient benchmark to compare estimated rates of cost reduction
across studies.
fall in cost as more are built. Another possible reason,
however, is that historical studies have typically aggre-
gated across diﬀerent plant types, while engineering pro-
jections focus on the cost trajectories of individual plant
technologies. In principle, some plant designs could have
realized declining costs, which are obscured by averages
across designs. If so, such cases could provide a histori-
cal basis for the widespread projections of declining costs.
We target this issue here, examining the cost trajectories
of individual standard plant designs using historical data
from the U.S. (Fig. 1).
We ﬁrst examine the overnight cost of construction of
107 nuclear plants from across the U.S. nuclear experi-
ence (Fig. 1a). Similar curves are shown in Grubler47,
Koomey and Hultman15, Cooper50, and Lang71. Echo-
ing previous ﬁndings47,49,50,15,51, we see that costs rose
rapidly. We estimate a learning rate of -115% for the in-
dustry, implying that plant costs more than doubled with
each doubling of cumulative U.S. capacity. Nevertheless,
the costs in Fig. 1a are averages across plants of all re-
actor designs. It is possible that the rise in the average
cost hides trends of decreasing costs in particular reactor
designs. To see if this is the case, we split out the cost tra-
jectories of several reactor designs. We examine the cost
trajectories of all four standard reactor designs installed
in the U.S. that exceeded 8GWe of installed capacity,
corresponding to the conditions under which the EMWG
guidelines project cost reductions. However, even after
disaggregating, construction costs rose across all four de-
signs as more plants were built. In fact, the FOAK plant
was the least expensive in three of the four cases, and was
among the least expensive plants in the fourth.
Thus, NOAK cost reductions are far from being a cer-
tain consequence of repeatedly building a given design. In
the analyses that follow we further examine the reasons
why. We note that plants of a given design are subject to
the same idiosyncratic eﬀects aﬀecting other plants. Al-
though these plants are based on the same reactor model,
they are not identical, and design diﬀerences in other as-
pects of plant design or construction may have mattered
more than expected, contributing to unexpected cost in-
creases. We return to this possibility in the analyses that
follow. A summary of the various learning rates in histor-
ical and prospective studies is given in Table 1, and shows
the sharp disparity between empirical estimates and pro-
jections.
Next we examine the assumption of model-speciﬁc
cost reduction, plotting experience curves separately for
each prominent technology class in Fig. 1b. Although
the rapid rise in costs across all nuclear plants is well
known, the assumption that cost reductions may still
have occurred for particular classes of plants persists.
The practice of including cost data from all reactor
types may contribute to this, as historical reports of
construction costs (e.g.,72,19) and previous publications
(e.g.,15,68,67,26,50,47) lack information on reactor type.
Berthelemy and Rangel48 is the only study we ﬁnd which
3
--- PAGE 4 ---
quantiﬁes the cost eﬀect of model standardization. Their
results show that standardization decreased cost in the
U.S. and France, while design innovation increased con-
struction costs.
2.2
Sources of cost change in nuclear
plant construction
To shed light on the causes of cost escalation, we de-
compose overnight construction into its cost components,
beginning with the period 1976-1987, for which we have
reliable cost data on all components of a Westinghouse
four-loop plant56,57,60,59,63.
We examine the contribu-
tions of 61 diﬀerent cost accounts from the Department of
Energy’s Energy Economic Data Base (EEDB) to cost in-
creases. These accounts, shown as ci in Eq. 1 below, rep-
resent individual plant components and services needed
to install these components. QE is the electrical output
capacity of the plant.
Ctotal
 $
We

=
1
QE
61
X
i=1
ci
(1)
The contribution of an individual account, ci, to total
plant cost change is calculated in Eq. 2 below:
∆ci =
ci,2 −ci,1
P61
i=1 ci,2 −P61
i=1 ci,1
(2)
where ci,1 and ci,2 represent the cost of account i in pe-
riods 1 and 2, respectively.
Fig. 2 depicts the eﬀects of the most important ac-
counts, and SI section 1 provides a full listing of the 61
cost accounts.
The overall trend is cost increase, with
few accounts experiencing minor cost decline, suggest-
ing that any positive learning eﬀects are outweighed by
other factors. Further, a diversity of accounts contribute
to the total cost escalation, indicating that the cause
cannot be easily attributed to any one source.
How-
ever, grouping accounts into direct and indirect cate-
gories, we identify that changes in indirect expenses were
the greatest. Indirect costs consist of construction sup-
port activities such as engineering, administration, con-
struction services, construction management, ﬁeld super-
vision, startup and testing73. Direct costs are the costs
of materials, labor, and equipment needed for physical
components like the plant reactor, structures, control and
monitoring systems, and assemblies73.
Indirect costs caused most (72%) of the cost in-
crease during period 1 (1976-1987), in particular indi-
rect expenses incurred by home oﬃce engineering ser-
vices (engineering design, purchasing and expediting, es-
timating and cost control, planning and scheduling), ﬁeld
job supervision (salaries, relocation expenses), temporary
construction facilities (materials and labor to construct
and manage temporary buildings needed during construc-
tion), and payroll insurance and taxes.
A majority of
these costs are not hardware related and are rather ’soft’
costs.
But why did indirect costs rise so dramatically, while
the modeled reactor design (Westinghouse 4-loop) re-
mained the same? The literature presents many hypothe-
ses, but little quantitative evidence. The account from
EEDB63 in 1988, the last year the database was updated,
suggests a multitude of causes: proliferation of safety reg-
ulations, codes and standards; owner/designer reaction to
the rapid appearance of these regulations, codes and stan-
dards; rework caused by ﬁeld interferences, constantly
changing designs in response to new requirements and in-
adequate engineering-to-construction lead times; extreme
precision required in analyses, coupled with inﬂexible
design and construction quality assurance requirements;
management preoccupation with regulatory inspection,
enforcement personnel site visits and prudency reviews;
and low worker morale, caused by all of the above.
To quantify which aspects of the technology were most
responsible for the rise in indirect expenses, we delve fur-
ther into the EEDB model and attribute indirect costs to
plant components. We estimate the amount of indirect
costs incurred by each direct cost component by aggregat-
ing the indirect expenses into cost “bases”, Bω, according
to the construction inputs that incur them: site labor,
materials, factory equipment, and safety-related compo-
nents. We assume each direct account is responsible for
a share of the indirect costs base that is the proportion
of its construction inputs to the total construction inputs
for each input category, ω. For instance, indirect costs
incurred by the fuel storage building are proportional to
the ratio of fuel storage labor, material, equipment, and
safety-related costs to total plant costs in these four cate-
gories. The total indirect cost incurred by an account, Zi,
then, is the sum of the products of each account’s share
and the indirect cost base for each cost category:
Zi =
X
ω
Ciω
P
i Ciω
Bω
(3)
We assume that the ratio of indirect to direct costs is
constant within each of the four input categories across
all accounts, mimicking the methods used in EEDB. A
complete description of the method and our assumptions
is provided in SI section S3.
Fig. 3 shows the results of redistributing indirect costs
to individual plant components.
These are rough esti-
mates based on the assumptions outlined above, in line
with an expectation that components with more and
longer installation steps are more labor-intensive and
also require more engineering and construction super-
vision to ensure compliance with standards, including
safety standards. Using this estimation method, the three
plant components most inﬂuential in causing indirect cost
change—the nuclear steam supply system (NSSS), the
4
--- PAGE 5 ---
turbine generator, and the containment building—also
contributed heavily to direct cost increase.
Recognition of the cost-interdependence of direct and
indirect accounts motivate going beyond these simpliﬁed
assumptions in our subsequent analysis into the technical
and economic mechanisms of cost change.
In section
2.2 we focus on direct containment building costs in
further decomposing cost changes into underlying engi-
neering choices and productivity trends because we can
model these costs using historical and recent design draw-
ings.
Further, the containment building is one of the
most expensive components and a component with sig-
niﬁcant safety requirements. The use of design drawings
enables us to extend our analysis from the historical pe-
riod 1 (1976-1987) to the year 2017. We also discuss why
the main conclusions we draw hold for total containment
costs, not just indirect costs, using the indirect cost data
currently available, while acknowledging uncertainties.
2.3
Sources of cost change in contain-
ment buildings
In this section we further examine mechanisms that led
to increases in cost components discussed in section 3.2.,
using a case study of the containment building. Contain-
ment buildings are airtight steel and concrete structures
that form the outermost layer of a nuclear reactor. They
are designed to prevent the escape of radioactive gases or
materials during accidents, to protect the reactor against
missile and aircraft impacts, and to provide structural
support for the nuclear steam supply system. We focus
on the containment for two reasons: 1) as the largest
safety-grade structure of a nuclear power plant, the con-
tainment constitutes a useful lens to study ﬁeld construc-
tion challenges and changing safety paradigms that also
aﬀect other plant components; 2) as a symmetric struc-
ture with comparatively simple geometry, design param-
eters can be more easily extracted from publicly available
design drawings than for other components.
Our cost model separately accounts for material and
labor costs to construct the foundation, shell, and dome
of the containment. We write total containment construc-
tion costs as
Ccontainment
 $
We

= Cfoundation + Cshell + Cdome.
(4)
We focus on steel, rebar and concrete and omit other,
less costly materials used for formwork (see Supplemen-
tary section S4 for model details).
To study the eﬀects of labor productivity trends on
costs, we develop a model with deployment rates of con-
struction materials as variables. For structures made of
materials i, this deployment rate is the ratio of mate-
rial volumes Vi to the quantity of labor (in person-hours)
needed to deploy these volumes, τi: vi = Vi
τi . This choice
results in an equation for direct construction costs of the
form shown in Eq. 5, where costs are a sum of products
of structure volumes Vi, material prices pi, volumetric
material fractions fi, and per-volume labor costs ( wi
vi ):
Ccontainment
 $
We

=
3
X
i=1
Vi
QE

fipi + wi
vi

.
(5)
In Supplemental section S5 we use a simple expan-
sion of this model to estimate indirect containment costs
and to draw conclusions about overall plant construction
costs.
We select two periods of study to align with major
shifts in U.S. nuclear construction: From 1976 to 1987
(period 1), the era characterized by changing public opin-
ion, rising nuclear regulations, and the events surround-
ing the Three Mile Island accident. From 1987 to 2017
(period 2), the recent era characterized by protracted con-
struction periods, development of new generations of re-
actor design, the long hiatus in nuclear project develop-
ment, and an attempt to revive the nuclear industry.
Populating our cost model with values from these pe-
riods, we can ask how much each variable contributed
to the cost increase of the containment building. Even
with a cost model in hand, attributing cost increases to
particular variables is non-trivial. Drawing on a recently
developed method74, we model the cost of a technology
as a sum over a set of cost components, C(⃗r) = P
i Ci(⃗r),
each of which is a multiplicatively separable function
Ci(⃗r) = Q
y giy(ry) of cost-determining variables ⃗r. The
elements of the vector ⃗r can include prices, design param-
eters, and other characteristics that aﬀect the cost of a
technology. This method results in estimates of the con-
tributions ∆Cy of each variable to cost change between
two periods t1 and t2, given by
∆Cy ≈
X
i
˜Ci ln
 
giy(r2
y)
giy(r1y)
!
,
(6)
where r1
y and r2
y are the values of the yth variable in
periods t1 and t2, and ˜Ci is the logarithmic mean of the
ith cost component over the two periods.
We refer to
changes in the variables ⃗r as low-level mechanisms of cost
change.
As shown in Figs 4 and 5, some low-level mechanisms
were signiﬁcantly more inﬂuential for cost increase than
others.
These mechanisms include changes in material
deployment rates, structure thicknesses, and steel prices.
However, the importance of these mechanisms changed
over time. During period 1 (1976-1987), the design of the
containment structure stayed the same, and cost increase
was caused primarily by declining deployment rates. Al-
though concrete and steel worker productivity declined
by comparable amounts (-40% for steel, -50% for con-
crete during the 1976-1987 period), steel worker produc-
tivity made a larger contribution to cost increase due to
5
--- PAGE 6 ---
the higher wage paid to steel workers. We study nuclear
productivity decline in more detail in section 3.4.
During period 2 (1987-2017), a new containment design
was adopted by Westinghouse (the AP-1000), and the re-
sulting changes to dimensions, material usage and labor
needs drove cost increase. The switch from active to pas-
sive cooling, a design that reduces the need for operator
intervention during emergencies by taking advantage of
natural forces, required the separation of the steel liner
from the concrete shield building. This change enabled
natural air convection between the two layers, but also
required thicker structures since
layers previously act-
ing together to resist external and internal forces now
needed to hold up independently75,76,77. The thickness
of the steel shell, which was ﬁve times greater in 2017 as
it was in 1987, made the single largest contribution to
cost increase (70%). Period 2 caused the majority of cost
increase (80%) during the 1976-2017 period.
Our results illustrate trade-oﬀs that can result from
innovations that aﬀect many variables simultaneously.
Switching to a free-standing containment steel vessel in
period 2 allowed the use of cheaper steel, as well as more
rapid steel shell deployment, but the cost-reducing eﬀect
of these changes was oﬀset by increasing structure thick-
nesses and the resulting higher material and labor costs.
Avoiding a cost increase over the 1987-2017 period despite
increased commodity use would have required massive
improvements in labor productivity (a ten fold increase
in steel and rebar deployment rates, over the 1987-2017
period). While our analysis of direct cost change in con-
tainment buildings covers only 3-4% of total plant costs
in 1976 and 1987, the costs of civil works in total account
for 30-50% of total nuclear power plant costs2. The con-
clusions drawn from this case study—e.g., on the eﬀects
of increased commodity usage—can therefore add insight
on drivers of cost change in other ﬁeld-constructed plant
components such as spent fuel handling buildings, turbine
generator buildings, and cooling towers.
Contrary to the years 1976 and 1987 we do not have
information on total indirect costs in 2017 because the
Vogtle plant is still under construction. We exclude indi-
rect containment costs in Fig. 4 but examine the eﬀects of
currently available indirect cost data on total containment
cost change in Supplemental section S5. Although total
containment costs depend sensitively on assumptions re-
garding indirect costs, mechanisms that are inﬂuential for
direct containment cost change also tend to be inﬂuential
for total containment cost change. Deployment rates are
slightly more important because they aﬀect a larger frac-
tion of total costs. Commodity prices become less inﬂu-
ential. We explore the eﬀects of data uncertainties using
a sensitivity analysis (see Supplemental section S6). Cost
change results are most sensitive to uncertainties in vari-
ables related to the use of steel, but our major conclusions
are unaﬀected by these uncertainties.
2.4
Further evaluation of construction
productivity changes
In section 3.3 we ﬁnd that declining construction pro-
ductivity was a major source of containment building cost
increase in period 1 (1976-1987). Here we further analyze
the factors leading to this decline. Previous work points
to a general decrease in U.S. construction productivity
during the period2,19, but has not looked at the nuclear
industry speciﬁcally.
To study this, we look at the evolution of material de-
ployment rates in nuclear construction, a measure of la-
bor productivity in terms of material installed per unit
of labor (e.g., m3/person-hour). Using data from EEDB
reports56,57,58,59,60,61,62,63 and recent AP1000 engineering
construction reports78,79, we compute the ratio of the vol-
ume of materials (steel or concrete) installed to the total
hours of labor needed for installation. We compare these
deployment rates to two benchmarks: An index of ma-
terial deployment rates in the construction industry as a
whole, and deployment rates assumed in nuclear industry
cost estimation guidelines.
Material deployment rates in the construction industry
decreased over the period of study, falling about 14%, as
shown in Fig. 6. Nevertheless, deployment rates in nu-
clear construction declined more dramatically, with a pre-
cipitous drop between 1979 and 1980 following the Three
Mile Island accident.
Compared with the construction
industry at large, nuclear deployment rates declined ﬁve
to six times more quickly. This productivity decline was
a primary cause of nuclear cost increase.
Labor inter-
views provide insight into some of the causes of declin-
ing productivity80, pointing to problems experienced in
the ﬁeld. Craft laborers, for example, were unproductive
during 75% of scheduled working hours, primarily due to
construction management and workﬂow issues, including
lack of material and tool availability, overcrowded work
areas, and scheduling conﬂicts between crews of diﬀerent
trades.
Material deployment rates in the U.S. nuclear industry
have been considerably lower than those assumed by the
industry for cost estimation purposes (e.g., EMWG14).
Industry average rates in the post-Three Mile Island pe-
riod were two to three times slower for steel and con-
crete. More recently, rates at the Vogtle and VC Sum-
mer project sites have been three to four times slower for
steel, and eight to thirteen times slower for concrete. This
disparity between projections of productivity and actual
experience has contributed signiﬁcantly to cost overruns.
These trends are observed despite recent eﬀorts to im-
prove productivity through modular design. Instead of
using standard reinforced concrete, which is constructed
on-site using elaborate formwork, the shield building in
the AP-1000 is comprised of prefabricated steel-plate
composite (SC) modules. SC modules have two steel lay-
ers and tie bars that act as concrete reinforcement, reduc-
ing the time needed for formwork and rebar placement81.
6
--- PAGE 7 ---
Smaller modules are assembled into larger modules on-
site and then lifted into place.
However, placement is
only one of many steps needed to install a module, which
also involves welding, piping, cabling, and other tasks.
Although SC modules were used in two major struc-
tures on the AP-1000 nuclear island (the containment and
auxiliary buildings), the eﬀect of modular construction
on the average steel deployment rate across the nuclear
island was not enough to raise productivity over previ-
ous years. Skills and training gaps, and the extra steps
needed for quality control of the modules, are among the
possible causes of low productivity82.
2.5
High-level
mechanisms
of
contain-
ment building cost change
What were the higher-level human activities and strate-
gies behind low-level mechanisms of cost change discussed
in sections 3.3 and 3.4? A common view is that safety reg-
ulations have increased the costs of nuclear power plant
construction83,49,84,4,2. Here we consider this view along-
side other drivers by estimating the role of diﬀerent activ-
ities in changing costs. To do this we attribute changes
in the variables in our cost model (low-level mechanisms)
to higher-order processes that likely caused these changes
(high-level mechanisms)74.
We assign
changes that require signiﬁcant modiﬁca-
tions of the containment building design and construc-
tion process to the mechanism ‘Research and develop-
ment (R&D)’. While construction projects are inherently
site-speciﬁc and on-site adjustments are common, the
mechanism R&D accounts for more fundamental changes
that require longer term, oﬀ-site activities.
For exam-
ple, changing the design by separating the steel liner and
concrete shield building required years of R&D by West-
inghouse, as indicated by patents and journal papers from
the 1970-2017 period (Supplemental Table S3).
We deﬁne three additional high-level mechanisms to ac-
count for changes driven by non-R&D related processes.
The ﬁrst mechanism, ‘Process interference, safety’ (PIS)’,
represents the eﬀects of on-site NRC and other safety-
related personnel on the construction process. Construc-
tion supervision, quality assurance and control by NRC
regulators can interfere with construction workﬂows and
slow productivity (see Supplemental Table S6).
The second additional high-level mechanism represents
decreases in the performance of construction workers.
We refer to this mechanism as ‘Worsening despite doing’
(WDD) instead of ‘negative learning’47 to distinguish be-
tween WDD and learning-by-doing as a concept in eco-
nomic theory. Learning-by-doing refers to improvement
as a result of an activity, such as working85.
WDD,
in contrast, attributes performance decreases to parasitic
processes (e.g., decreasing morale) that did not origi-
nate in construction activities, but were also not coun-
teracted by them. These processes may have diminished
productivity gains from problem-solving during routine,
sequential work steps, which is often seen as the source of
learning-by-doing85,86. Note that these processes may be
indirectly linked to safety regulations through complex,
project-speciﬁc interactions but have not been directly
mandated by regulations, and we therefore distinguish
between process interference-safety (PIS) and worsening
despite doing (WDD).
Finally, we use the mechanism
‘Other’ to refer to changes originating predominantly out-
side of the nuclear industry (e.g., wage or commodity
price changes).
We relate cost changes to high-level mechanisms by
using engineering and construction knowledge to identify
relationships between these mechanisms and the variables
in our cost model, and then check this initial assignment
with information from patents and journal papers describ-
ing motivations for innovations and drivers of productiv-
ity changes (see Supplemental section S7). A complete
list of assignments for the low-level mechanisms shown in
Fig. 4 is given in Supplemental Table S5. In time pe-
riod 1 (1976-1987), we assign material deployment rates
to R&D, WDD, and PIS to account for several parallel
developments that aﬀected labor productivity. Following
the Three Mile Island accident, NRC regulations required
increased documentation of safety-compliant construction
practices, prompting companies to develop quality assur-
ance programs to manage the correct use and testing of
safety-related equipment and nuclear construction mate-
rials.
In contrast to the more informal practices used
in the 1960s, NRC quality assurance standards became
increasingly speciﬁc in the 1970s, regulating construction
steps such as concrete placement and rebar testing83. We
therefore categorize slowdowns in productivity as R&D.
Time period 1 also saw the inception of the NRC’s res-
ident inspector program, putting NRC directly on site
to monitor construction activities87. Since these inter-
ferences directly aﬀected construction practices87,88, we
categorize material deployment rates as PIS. Finally, we
account for non safety-related productivity changes by
assigning deployment rates to the mechanism WDD. A
worker survey from six nuclear power plants constructed
during time period 1, for instance, attributes 27% of un-
productive time to a lack of material and tool availabil-
ity, indicating supply chain management issues that are
largely independent from safety requirements80.
While the dimensions of the containment building were
constant in time period 1 (1976-1987), they changed in
time period 289. Based on the information contained in
patents and journal papers (Supplemental Tables S3 and
S4), these changes were made in pursuit of design sim-
plicity, constructibility, and safety goals, and we therefore
assign thicknesses, radii and heights to R&D. Since the
use of cheaper steel and its faster deployment are conse-
quences of the design change, these two mechanisms are
also assigned to R&D. Concrete and rebar prices are as-
signed to ‘Other’ (see Supplemental Tables S5 and S6 for
other assignments and data sources).
Altogether, R&D-related activities contributed roughly
7
--- PAGE 8 ---
30% to cost increases, and on-site, procedural changes
(worsening-despite-doing and interferences with the con-
struction process) contributed roughly 70% (see Fig. 7).
The large inﬂuence of these procedural and site-speciﬁc
mechanisms points to the importance of innovation in
these areas.
Our results also provide a starting point for quantify-
ing the eﬀect of safety regulations. While safety-related
considerations likely had an inﬂuence on many of the
high-level mechanisms studied here, the mechanism most
directly related to compliance with regulations is pro-
cess interference, safety, which contributed approximately
30% to the observed cost increase between 1976-2017.
The mechanism representing R&D activities typically ad-
dresses multiple objectives at once and it is thus more
diﬃcult to strictly separate this into into safety- and non-
safety related activities, and the same holds for productiv-
ity slowdowns reﬂected in ‘worsening by doing’. However,
despite these diﬃculties, it is relevant to note that direct
interference to address safety contributed signiﬁcantly to
cost increases observed (roughly 30%) but was not the
only driver of cost escalation.
2.6
Opportunities for future cost reduc-
tion in nuclear construction
We conclude by examining scenarios for future reduc-
tions in nuclear construction costs. The goal of this anal-
ysis is to begin to examine whether factors that have led
to cost increases in the past can be addressed through in-
novation. Each scenario corresponds to a set of changes
to the variables in the containment cost model relative to
their values in 2017. These ‘prospective low-level mecha-
nisms’ represent the estimated eﬀect of innovations such
as advanced manufacturing and high-strength construc-
tion materials, which aﬀect multiple variables either di-
rectly or indirectly through interactions. We estimate the
relative eﬀect of diﬀerent low-level mechanisms induced
by these innovations by populating our containment cost
model with current U.S. and future estimated cost data
assuming diﬀerent innovations are implemented (see SI
section S8.1), and using cost change equations to quantify
the contribution of low-level mechanisms to the resultant
cost reduction.
We use the same cost change model as for historical
years but include formwork costs, drawing on recent data
sources. We also estimate the potential contribution of
higher order improvement processes (high-level mecha-
nisms) to cost reductions, which shed light on how the
innovations we consider might be developed and imple-
mented at construction sites. These scenarios represent
hypothetical development strategies, which could be fur-
ther explored and validated through detailed engineering
models of speciﬁc reactor designs.
We consider three scenarios.
In scenario 1, cost im-
provement is pursued along multiple dimensions, which
is represented as
20% change of all variables in a cost-
reducing direction (e.g., deployment rates increase by
20%.) Although no real-world design change will induce
equal percent-changes across all variables, scenario 1 is
meant to test the sensitivity of our model. We change
the plant eﬃciency and the concrete fraction in rein-
forced concrete by less than 20% to reﬂect engineering
constraints (see Supplemental section S8.1).
In contrast to scenario 1, scenarios 2 and 3 represent
speciﬁc eﬀorts to reduce costs. In scenario 2, we assume
that on-site deployment rates improve due to adoption of
advanced manufacturing and construction management
techniques90. We draw on a review article91 to estimate
improved concrete and formwork deployment rates and
capital costs of currently available automation equipment
(see Supplemental section S8.1 and Table S7). For rebar,
we turn to innovations in process management (e.g., op-
timized rebar delivery and placement planning92).
Scenario 3 is focused on advanced, high-strength con-
struction materials, which have been shown to reduce
commodity use and on-site rebar congestion in high-rise
buildings and bridges (e.g.,93,94).
We model a combi-
nation of high-strength reinforcement steel (HSRS) and
ultra high-performance concrete (UHPC)95. HSRS pro-
vides up to 40% more yield strength (i.e., the stress at
which a predetermined amount of permanent deforma-
tion occurs) than conventional rebar96, which is equiva-
lent to a proportionate reduction in rebar amounts per
unit of concrete volume (see Supplemental section S8.3
for details).
Scenarios 2 and 3 reduce costs by 30-40% relative to
2017 containment costs, though neither scenario leads
to a reduction relative to 1976 costs, primarily due the
switch from one to two shells and the associated increase
in commodity usage.
In scenario 1, reductions in
re-
bar use (represented by fcon and referred to as ‘concrete
fraction’ in Fig.
8) and in ironworker wages are most
inﬂuential, together causing roughly 30% of total direct
cost reductions (Fig. 8). Even in a hypothetical scenario
where steel for the containment vessel was free, changing
the rebar content of concrete would remain the dominant
cost changing eﬀect due to labor costs.
These results
demonstrate the limits to materials-related cost-reduction
opportunities in nuclear structures due to their large-scale
dimensions and labor intensity.
Scenario 2 results in a reduction of containment con-
struction costs to approximately two thirds of estimated
costs in 2017 (-34%). This eﬀect is driven primarily by
faster concrete deployment. Although formwork materi-
als cost a fraction of steel, the larger eﬀect of automation
on formwork as compared to steel productivity leads to
similar contributions to cost reduction. Estimated capital
costs for automation equipment are a minor cost driver,
comprising approximately 6% of total containment con-
struction costs. Scenario 2 nevertheless represents a 30%
cost increase relative to 1976 costs.
Despite the large reduction in commodity usage, sce-
nario 3 only reduces costs by a little over one third (-37%
8
--- PAGE 9 ---
from 2017 levels).
Due to the expensive fabrication of
UHPC steel ﬁbers, the price of UHPC is currently 10
times that of standard nuclear concrete97,94,93 (see Sup-
plemental section S8.1), and high-strength rebar is 50%
more expensive than standard rebar. Cost reductions in
scenario 3 could reach 50% if the costs of advanced mate-
rials reached current prices of nuclear commodities. Costs
have declined in European countries that scaled UHPC
production earlier94, but similar cost declines have yet to
be achieved in North America.
The prospective analysis highlights the challenges in re-
ducing the costs of a ﬁeld-constructed, site-speciﬁc tech-
nology under high safety standards.
Scenario 1 shows
that the rebar fraction in the concrete shield building is
twice as inﬂuential as other variables, yet this is one of the
variables most constrained by safety standards. Scenario
2 demonstrates that both concrete and steel construc-
tion would require automation to cut costs by more than
30%, yet challenges remain in the 3D printing of steel.
The properties of printed metals under nuclear operating
conditions (e.g., their microstructure, corrosion cracking,
and irradiation eﬀects) are an active area of research, but
no commercially available product currently exists98.
We use the assignment scheme presented in section ??
to relate low-level to high-level mechanisms, but include
an additional mechanism to account for the transfer of
external innovations to the nuclear industry. We refer to
this mechanism as ‘Knowledge spillover’ (KS). Knowledge
spillover is similar to learning-by-copying in the sense that
capabilities developed in one domain are adopted by an-
other99. However, activities involved in this process may
go beyond copying, since adopting advanced materials or
automated construction systems will likely require adap-
tations to nuclear construction and inspection processes.
Although many technologies draw on multiple industries
as they evolve and historical spillovers are therefore of-
ten diﬃcult to pin down, the scenarios here assume the
use of speciﬁc, recent innovations whose development out-
side the nuclear industry is well documented. Given this
background, we label the initial implementation of these
innovations in the nuclear domain as a spillover.
We assign increases in material prices to the same high-
level mechanisms that enable the switch to advanced ma-
terials (R&D and KS). In scenario 1, where we do not
specify an innovation, we use historical associations be-
tween low- and high-level mechanisms as our ‘best guess’
for the future.
As shown in Fig. 9, we ﬁnd that all scenarios require
some form of R&D, and that R&D plays a greater role
relative to other mechanisms compared to the results of
our retrospective analysis shown in Fig. 7. The contri-
bution of other high-level mechanisms varies across sce-
narios.
LBD is slightly more important when improve-
ments to the construction process are adopted (scenario
2). Knowledge spillovers are less important for cost re-
ductions in scenario 3 (advanced materials) than in sce-
nario 2 because the cost decrease enabled by knowledge
spillovers and the use of advanced materials is simultane-
ously diminished by the higher prices of these materials.
3
Discussion
In this paper we model nuclear plant costs over ﬁve
decades to understand sources of rising construction costs
in the U.S. and how these compare to engineering projec-
tions. We document cost escalation in nuclear technol-
ogy with time, even among plants of nominally standard
design. Decomposing individual plant costs, we identify
declining labor productivity as a major driver of cost in-
crease over time, which we study mechanistically through
a case study of the reactor containment building. The
ﬁndings of this research lead us to revisit how engineering
expectations regarding construction, technological perfor-
mance, and innovation may have contributed to an un-
derestimation of cost factors external to hardware design.
While it is acknowledged that construction costs in-
creased for nuclear plants in the U.S. and other countries,
substantial reductions within a given design class (nth-of-
a-kind plants) are still commonly expected in engineering
cost models. We review nuclear cost estimating practices
and industry growth projections, identifying a common
expectation that learning eﬀects drive down cost as expe-
rience grows66,36,68,67,32,40,69,31,35,2,46.
The notion that
improved plant designs can solve cost issues once new
designs can be standardized and production scaled has
driven substantial public and private R&D investment,
but it is unclear what the net eﬀect of such investment
has been. While previous empirical evidence shows that
costs rise with experience47,50,51, our work demonstrates
that this eﬀect was also true for NOAK plants of standard
reactor technology in the U.S., indicating that cost reduc-
tions from standardization should not be expected as an
inherent consequence of industry experience. However,
our results should be interpreted within the context that
not all plants within each standard design are perfectly
identical and the design diﬀerences may have contributed
to the unexpected cost increases. Further work is needed
to evaluate NOAK cost trends in other countries.
Rising costs are often assumed to be associated with in-
creasing stringency of safety regulations (e.g.,83,49. Here
we estimate that prescriptive
safety requirements can
be associated with approximately one third of the direct
containment cost increase between 1976 and 2017.
Productivity declines played a signiﬁcant role in cost
escalation.
We show that nuclear productivity has de-
clined faster than that in the construction industry,
and that actual productivity at nuclear construction
projects is signiﬁcantly below industry expectations. The
widespread use of expectations that do not match actual
experience may be a contributing factor in cost overruns,
and suggests the importance of a comprehensive update
using empirical, country-speciﬁc productivity data where
available. A limitation of our study is that for data avail-
9
--- PAGE 10 ---
ability reasons we use aggregated productivity data cov-
ering multiple construction tasks. Future work involving
targeted new data collection could explore productivity
trends at the component- or task-level to develop a more
ﬁne-grained picture of on- and oﬀ-site productivity in the
nuclear industry.
Looking to the future, our ﬁndings suggest that engi-
neering models used to project future construction costs
should be reexamined in light of the limitations of as-
sumed learning rates and current approaches to engi-
neering design solutions to site-speciﬁc and variable chal-
lenges. Using mechanistic models populated with recent,
observed nuclear construction data can relate engineering
design changes to cost change and potentially make cost
projections more reliable. Moreover, there is some sugges-
tion that cost escalation can be avoided by new strategies
to assemble and codify knowledge. In China, Japan, and
South Korea, for example, shorter construction schedules
have been reported in cases where the same engineering
company led projects in multiple countries2.
These observations motivate our modeling of scenar-
ios for potential for future construction cost reduction.
Our scenarios suggest that reducing commodity usage,
for example through employing high-strength composite
materials alongside automated construction could signif-
icantly reduce costs.
To realize these scenarios, R&D
would need to play a more signiﬁcant role compared to
its past contribution to cost change.
Knowledge transfer from other industries, for instance
in the form of advanced manufacturing techniques, could
be particularly impactful if it enables automated con-
trol of process parameters, thereby reducing the costs of
human-led construction supervision. However, additional
eﬀorts may be needed to ensure that these innovations
can be adapted for nuclear applications.
For instance,
test data on the performance of new materials will likely
be required to ensure standards can be satisﬁed100.
Similarly, while our analysis identiﬁes the rebar den-
sity in reinforced concrete as the most inﬂuential variable
for cost decrease, changes to the amount and composi-
tion of containment concrete are constrained by safety
regulations, most notably the requirement for contain-
ment structures to withstand commercial aircraft im-
pacts. New plant designs with underground (embedded)
reactors could allow for thinner containment walls. How-
ever, these designs are still under development and pose
the risk of high excavation costs in areas or at sites with
low productivity.
Our retrospective and prospective analyses together
provide insights on the past shortcomings of engineering
cost models and possible solutions for the future.
Nu-
clear reactor costs exceeded expectations in engineering
models because cost variables related to labor productiv-
ity and safety regulations were underestimated.
These
discrepancies between expectation and realized costs in-
creased with time, with changing regulations and vari-
able construction site-speciﬁc characteristics. Our analy-
ses demonstrate the importance of rethinking engineering
cost models and design approaches to anticipate these ef-
fects and choose designs that are robust to them. Mecha-
nistic models of cost change of the kind presented in this
paper could be used to explore potential solutions. In the
case of nuclear ﬁssion reactors, reducing commodity usage
and automating construction could be particularly impor-
tant. While this study focuses on nuclear ﬁssion reactors,
other technologies with similarly demanding on-site con-
struction and performance requirements may also beneﬁt
from this approach.
Several areas for future research emerge from this work.
One important area for further investigation is to extend
our analysis of the containment building to the entire
plant. An important advance in the methods for doing
so would be to explicitly model engineering- and physics-
based interactions between plant components. Another
approach would be to use expert elicitations to develop
insight on how variables aﬀecting cost might change in
the future (e.g.,101). Furthermore, previous studies have
highlighted incomplete designs as one of several possi-
ble causes for cost escalation in nuclear power plants and
other construction projects2,102.
Future research could
disaggregate various components of total plant costs (such
as those shown in Fig. 2) to enable mechanistic modeling
of the eﬀects of design revisions on home oﬃce engineer-
ing and other soft costs. Moreover, future work might in-
vestigate the institutional and regulatory conditions that
best support learning in the nuclear industry to better un-
derstand diﬀerences in nuclear construction costs across
countries and construction ﬁrms. Finally, additional re-
search should focus on other technologies with similarly
demanding on-site construction and performance require-
ments to develop better understanding of the potential
avenues for preventing cost overruns and supporting in-
novation.
4
Experimental Procedures
4.1
Lead Contact
Further information and requests for resources and ma-
terials should be directed to and will be fulﬁlled by the
Lead Contact, Jessika E. Trancik (trancik@mit.edu).
4.2
Materials Availability
Materials generated in this study will be made available
on request, but we may require a payment and/or a com-
pleted Materials Transfer Agreement if there is potential
for commercial application.
10
--- PAGE 11 ---
4.3
Data and Code Availability
The published article with Supplemental Information
includes detailed equations that can be use to replicate
the code in this study and also includes detailed tabular
data collected during this study.
Additional materials
supporting the study are available from the Lead Contact
on request.
4.4
Data
Collection of empirical data from nuclear projects is
challenging. Primary data sources are scarce and dated
compared to other technologies, as relatively few nuclear
plants have been completed by only a handful of compa-
nies, and the average plant in the U.S. is over forty years
old. In addition, the use of best-case nuclear data or data
from non-nuclear projects is common in bottom-up cost
modeling (e.g.,14,36). Changes to project design, sched-
ule, and cost mid-stream are frequent and create another
obstacle to ﬁnding data that is representative of an entire
project.
To address the above issues we collect data from a
broad array of sources and check empirical data against
hypothetical and best-case assumptions.
For our anal-
ysis of nuclear learning rates and nth-of-a-kind (NOAK)
cost trends, we use databases of construction data, includ-
ing International Atomic Energy Agency reactor informa-
tion, historical government reports, and published data
from academic and industry literature (e.g., PRIS24, U.S.
EIA72,19, Koomey and Hultman15). We use ‘overnight’
cost of construction data in our analysis, which excludes
ﬁnancing costs. We use the gross domestic product price
deﬂator to convert nominal costs to real costs, choosing
an economy-wide index as the objective is to analyze costs
in such a way that they can be compared to other poten-
tial technologies and investments.
The total cost of a
nuclear power plant includes interest on funds used to
build the plant, which accounts for approximately 65% of
the total cost of plants which began construction in the
mid 1970s (up from approximately 35% for plants begun
a decade earlier)19. To study construction productivity
changes in the U.S., we derive material deployment and
labor data from reports by the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics103.
Our evaluation of cost estimating guidelines is based
upon series of reports prepared under the U.S. Depart-
ment of Energy and by industry consortia (e.g.,36,14). For
containment cost decomposition, we turn to EEDB data
on commodity costs, labor costs, labor productivity, and
structure dimensions of light-water reactor containment
buildings constructed during the 1970s and 1980s, and ﬁll
in the gaps with U.S. Geological Survey commodity price
data. We use containment building data from nuclear en-
gineering speciﬁcations and architectural drawings of the
Westinghouse AP1000 LWR for analysis of 2017 costs,
as this is the only plant design currently under construc-
tion in the U.S. We also draw on
AP1000 construction
and engineering reports from the VC Summer project in
South Carolina.
The resulting data set is, to the extent possible, rep-
resentative of the U.S. nuclear industry in all three years
studied in our analysis of containment building cost
change. In 1976 and 1987, several plants were under con-
struction, and our data represents an industry average56.
In 2017, our data represent the only nuclear project under
construction. Projects using the same containment design
are under way in other countries, thus our ﬁndings may
be relevant in some non-U.S. markets. Note that overall,
while we build on and draw upon existing, peer-reviewed
nuclear cost datasets26,104, the mechanistic modeling of
cost drivers in sections 3.3 and 3.6 requires component-
level, detailed cost data that is not available from peer-
reviewed sources (e.g., construction productivity data at
recent nuclear construction sites, containment building
dimensions).
We use this data with an understanding
that a lack of peer-review introduces uncertainty, and we
address this issue using sensitivity analysis (SI section
S6).
Acknowledgements
We thank the The David and Lucile Packard Foun-
dation and the MIT Energy Initiative for funding this
research. We also thank Dr. David Petti, David Jones,
and Patrick Champlin for valuable discussions.
Author Contributions
PEG: Conceptualization, Methodology, Investigation,
Writing - Original Draft, Writing - Review & Editing, Vi-
sualization; MMK: Conceptualization, Methodology, In-
vestigation, Writing - Original Draft, Writing - Review &
Editing, Visualization; GK: Conceptualization, Method-
ology, Writing - Review & Editing; JM: Conceptualiza-
tion, Methodology, Writing - Review & Editing; JB: Con-
ceptualization, Writing - Review & Editing, Funding Ac-
quisition; JET: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing
- Review & Editing, Funding Acquisition, Supervision.
Declaration of Interests
The authors declare no competing interests.
11
--- PAGE 12 ---
References
[1] Davis, S.J., Lewis, N.S., Shaner, M., Aggarwal, S.,
Arent, D., Azevedo, I.L., Benson, S.M., Bradley, T.,
Brouwer, J., Chiang, Y.M. et al., (2018). Net-zero
emissions energy systems. Science, 360(6396).
[2] Buongiorno, J., Corradini, M., Parsons, J. and
Petti, D., (2018).
The Future of Nuclear Energy
in a Carbon-Constrained World, An MIT Interdis-
ciplinary Study. MIT Energy Initiative.
[3] Energy Advisory Board, S. of, (2016). Report of the
Task Force on the Future of Nuclear Power. U.S.
Department of Energy.
[4] Deutch, J.M., Forsberg, C.W., Kadak, A.C., Kaz-
imi, M.S., Moniz, E.J., Parsons, J.E. et al., (2009).
Update of the mit 2003 future of nuclear power.
Cambridge, mass.: Report for massachusetts insti-
tute of technology. retrieved september, 17, p.2009.
[5] Ansolabehere, S. and Konisky, D.M., (2009). Public
attitudes toward construction of new power plants.
Public opinion quarterly, 73(3), pp.566–577.
[6] Kim, Y., Kim, W. and Kim, M., (2014). An inter-
national comparative analysis of public acceptance
of nuclear energy. Energy policy, 66, pp.475–483.
[7] Corkhill, C. and Hyatt, N., (2018). Nuclear waste
management. IOP Publishing.
[8] Ewing, R.C. and Hippel, F.N. von, (2009).
Nu-
clear waste management in the united statesstart-
ing over. Science, 325(5937), pp.151–152.
[9] Laboratory,
N.R.E.,
(2012).
Life
cy-
cle
assessment
harmonization.
Available
from:
https://www.nrel.gov/analysis/
life-cycle-assessment.html [Accessed 2020].
[10] Weisser, D., (2007). A guide to life-cycle greenhouse
gas (ghg) emissions from electric supply technolo-
gies. Energy, 32(9), pp.1543–1559.
[11] Bruckner, T., Bashmakov, I., Mulugetta, Y., Chum,
H., Vega, A. de la, Navarro, J.E., Faaij, A., Fung-
tammasan, B., Garg, A., Hertwich, E., Honnery, D.,
In eld, M., Kainuma, S., Khennas, Kim, S., Nimir,
H.B., Riahi, K., Strachan, R., Wiser, R. and Zhang,
X., (2014).
Energy systems. in: Climate change
2014: Mitigation of climate change. contribution
of working group iii to the ﬁfth assessment report
of the intergovernmental panel on climate change.
Cambridge university press, cambridge, united king-
dom and new york, ny, usa.
[12] International
Atomic
Energy
Agency,
(2018).
Power Reactor Information System:
History of
Electricity Production.
Available from:
https:
//pris.iaea.org.
[13] Association, W.N., (2018). Energy Subsidies. Avail-
able
from:
http://www.worldenergyoutlook.
org/resources/energysubsidies/
[Accessed
2018].
[14] Rasin, W., Ono, K., Bertel, E., Berbey, P., Duﬀey,
R., Khalil, H., Kinoshita, I., Kuran, S., Lee, M.,
Onopko, E., Rothwell, G. and Williams, K., (2007).
Cost Estimating Guidelines for Generation IV Nu-
clear Energy Systems. Generation IV International
Forum.
[15] Koomey, J. and Hultman, N.E., (2007). A reactor-
level analysis of busbar costs for us nuclear plants,
1970–2005. Energy policy, 35(11), pp.5630–5642.
[16] Walker, J.S. and Wellock, T.R., (2010). A short his-
tory of nuclear regulation, 1946-2009. United states
nuclear regulatory commission, pp.1–116.
[17] Marshall, J.M. and Navarro, P., (1991). Costs of
nuclear power plant construction: theory and new
evidence. The rand journal of economics, pp.148–
154.
[18] Hultman, N.E., Koomey, J.G. and Kammen, D.M.,
(2007). What history can teach us about the future
costs of us nuclear power.
[19] U.S. Energy Information Administration, (1986).
Analysis of nuclear power plant construction costs.
U.S. Department of Energy.
Available from:
https://doi.org/10.2172/6071600.
[20] Gold, R., (2017).
Tab swells to $25 billion for
nuclear-power plant in georgia. The wall street jour-
nal.
[21] Bade, G., (2017). Vogtle nuke cost could top $25b
as decision time looms. Utility drive.
[22] Locatelli, G. and Mancini, M., (2012). Looking back
to see the future: building nuclear power plants in
europe. Construction management and economics,
30(8), pp.623–637.
[23] BBC, (2019). Hinkley Point C nuclear plant to run
2.9bn over budget. Available from: https://www.
bbc.com/news/business-49823305.
[24] International
Atomic
Energy
Agency,
(2018).
Power Reactor Information System: Country De-
tails.
[25] Schneider,
M.,
Froggatt,
A.,
Hazemann,
J.,
Matsuta,
T.,
Ramana,
M.,
Rodriguez,
J.
and
Rudinger,
A.,
(2017).
The
world
nu-
clear
industry
status
report
2017.
Available
from:
https://www.worldnuclearreport.org/
IMG/pdf/20170912wnisr2017-en-lr.pdf.
12
--- PAGE 13 ---
[26] Lovering, J.R., Yip, A. and Nordhaus, T., (2016).
Historical construction costs of global nuclear power
reactors. Energy policy, 91, pp.371–382. Available
from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2016.
01.011.
[27] Gilbert, A., Sovacool, B.K., Johnstone, P. and Stir-
ling, A., (2017). Cost overruns and ﬁnancial risk
in the construction of nuclear power reactors: A
critical appraisal. Energy policy, 102, pp.644–649.
[28] Yi-Chong, X., (2010). The politics of nuclear energy
in china. Springer.
[29] Administration, U.E.I., (2018).
Assumptions to
the annual energy outlook 2018: Electricity mar-
ket module.
[30] Cole, W., Mai, T., Logan, J., Steinberg, D., Mc-
Call, J.M., Richards, J., Sigrin, B. and Porro, G.,
(2016). 2016 standard scenarios report: A u.s. elec-
tricity sector outlook.
National renewable energy
laboratory technical report tp-6a20-66939.
[31] International Atomic Energy Agency, (2003). Guid-
ance for the evaluation of innovative nuclear reac-
tors and fuel cycles. Department of Nuclear Energy.
[32] Abdulla, A., Azevedo, I.L. and Morgan, M.G.,
(2013). Expert assessments of the cost of light wa-
ter small modular reactors. Proceedings of the na-
tional academy of sciences, 110(24), pp.9686–9691.
Available from: https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.
1300195110.
[33] Schulz, T.L., (2006).
Westinghouse ap1000 ad-
vanced passive plant. Nuclear engineering and de-
sign, 236(14-16), pp.1547–1557.
[34] Energy Innovation Portfolio Plan FY2018-2022,
(2017). U.S. Department of Energy.
[35] Carelli, M.D., Garrone, P., Locatelli, G., Mancini,
M., Mycoﬀ, C., Trucco, P. and Ricotti, M.E.,
(2010).
Economic features of integral, modular,
small-to-medium size reactors. Progress in nuclear
energy, 52(4), pp.403–414. Available from: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.pnucene.2009.09.003.
[36] Delene, J. and Hudson, C., (1993). Cost Estimate
Guidelines for Advance Nuclear Power Technologies
(R3). Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
[37] Rosner, R. and Goldberg, S., (2011). Small modu-
lar reactors–key to future nuclear power generation
in the us.
Energy policy institute at chicago, the
university of chicago, chicago.
[38] Boldon, L.M. and Sabharwall, P., (2014).
Small
modular reactor: First-of-a-kind (foak) and nth-of-
a-kind (noak) economic analysis.
Idaho national
lab.(inl): Idaho falls, id, usa.
[39] Iyer, G., Ledna, C., Clarke, L., McJeon, H., Ed-
monds, J. and Wise, M., (2017). Gcam-usa analysis
of us electric power sector transitions. Paciﬁc north-
west national laboratory, richland, washington.
[40] Intergovernmental
Panel
on
Climate
Change,
(2000). Emissions Scenarios. A Special Report of
Working Group III of the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change.
[41] Administration, U.E.I., (2020).
Electric power
monthly.
[42] International
Atomic
Energy
Agency,
(2020).
Power
Reactor
Information
System:
Reactor
overview and Nuclear share.
Available from:
https://pris.iaea.org.
[43] Administration,
U.E.I.,
(2020).
U.S.
elec-
tricity
generation
by
major
energy
source,
1950-2019.
Available
from:
https://www.
eia.gov/energyexplained/electricity/
electricity-in-the-us.php.
[44] Association, W.N., (2018).
Country proﬁle: Nu-
clear power in the usa.
[45] Roth, M.B. and Jaramillo, P., (2017). Going nu-
clear for climate mitigation: An analysis of the cost
eﬀectiveness of preserving existing us nuclear power
plants as a carbon avoidance strategy. Energy, 131,
pp.67–77.
[46] Matsuo, Y. and Nei, H., (2019). An analysis of the
historical trends in nuclear power plant construc-
tion costs: The japanese experience. Energy policy,
124, pp.180–198.
[47] Grubler, A., (2010). The costs of the french nuclear
scale-up: A case of negative learning by doing. En-
ergy policy, 38(9), pp.5174–5188.
[48] Berth´elemy, M. and Rangel, L.E., (2015). Nuclear
reactors’ construction costs: The role of lead-time,
standardization and technological progress. Energy
policy, 82, pp.118–130.
[49] MacKerron, G., (1992).
Nuclear costs: Why do
they keep rising? Energy policy, 20(7), pp.641–652.
[50] Cooper,
M.,
(2010).
Policy
Challenges
of
Nuclear
Reactor
Construction,
Cost
Escala-
tion
and
Crowding
Out
Alternatives.
In-
stitute
for
energy
and
the
environment,
ver-
mont
law
. . . ,
5(6
2),
pp.1–5.
Available
from:
http://www.ises.org.il/assets/files/
News/20100909{\_}cooperStudy.pdf.
[51] Rubin, E.S., Azevedo, I.M.L., Jaramillo, P. and
Yeh, S., (2015). Review article A review of learn-
ing rates for electricity supply technologies.
En-
ergy policy, 86, pp.198–218. Available from: https:
//doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2015.06.011.
13
--- PAGE 14 ---
[52] Lovins, A.B., (1986).
The origins of the nuclear
power ﬁasco. The politics of energy research and
development, energy policy studies vol, 3, pp.7–34.
[53] Lester, R.K. and McCabe, M.J., (1993). The eﬀect
of industrial structure on learning by doing in nu-
clear power plant operation. The rand journal of
economics, pp.418–438.
[54] Sovacool, B.K., Gilbert, A. and Nugent, D., (2014).
Risk, innovation, electricity infrastructure and con-
struction cost overruns: Testing six hypotheses. En-
ergy, 74, pp.906–917.
[55] Brookes, N.J. and Locatelli, G., (2015).
Power
plants as megaprojects: Using empirics to shape
policy, planning, and construction management.
Utilities policy, 36, pp.57–66.
[56] United Engineers & Constructors, (1977).
Capi-
tal Cost: Pressurized Water Reactor Plant.
Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission & Energy Research
and Development Administration. Available from:
https://doi.org/10.2172/6033498.
[57] United Engineers & Constructors, (1979). Energy
Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase I.
U.S. Department of Energy.
[58] United Engineers & Constructors, (1981).
En-
ergy Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase
II.
U.S. Department of Energy.
Available from:
https://doi.org/10.2172/6477534.
[59] United Engineers & Constructors, (1981). Energy
Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase III.
U.S. Department of Energy.
[60] United Engineers & Constructors, (1981). Energy
Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase IV.
U.S Department of Energy. Available from: https:
//doi.org/10.2172/5388083.
[61] United Engineers & Constructors, (1984).
En-
ergy Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase
VI. U.S. Department of Energy. Available from:
https://doi.org/10.2172/6504693.
[62] United Engineers & Constructors, (1985).
En-
ergy Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase
VII. U.S. Department of Energy. Available from:
https://doi.org/10.2172/5237914.
[63] United Engineers & Constructors, (1988). Energy
Economic Data Base (EEDB) Program: Phase IX.
U.S. Department of Energy.
[64] Harris, G., Heptonstall, P., Gross, R. and Handley,
D., (2013). Cost estimates for nuclear power in the
uk. Energy policy, 62, pp.431–442.
[65] Maronati, G., Petrovic, B., Van Wyk, J.J., Kel-
ley,
M.H. and White,
C.C.,
(2018).
EVAL:
A methodological approach to identify NPP to-
tal capital investment cost drivers and sensitiv-
ities.
Progress in nuclear energy, 104, pp.190–
202. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.pnucene.2017.09.014.
[66] Delene, J. and Hudson, C., (1990). Cost Estimate
Guidelines for Advance Nuclear Power Technologies
(R2). Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
[67] Kouvaritakis, N., Soria, A. and Isoard, S., (2000).
Modelling energy technology dynamics: methodol-
ogy for adaptive expectations models with learn-
ing by doing and learning by searching. Interna-
tional journal of global energy issues (ijgei), 14(1-
4), pp.104–115. Available from: https://doi.org/
10.1504/IJGEI.2000.004384.
[68] Mcdonald, A. and Schrattenholzer, L., (2001).
Learning rates for energy technologies. 29, pp.255–
261.
[69] Change,
I.P.o.C.,
(2007).
Climate
Change
2007
Synthesis
Report.
9809069v1,
Avail-
able
from:
https://doi.org/10.1256/
004316502320517344.
[70] Sepulveda, N.A., Jenkins, J.D., Sisternes, F.J. de
and Lester, R.K., (2018).
The role of ﬁrm low-
carbon electricity resources in deep decarbonization
of power generation. Joule, 2(11), pp.2403–2420.
[71] Lang, P., (2017). Nuclear power learning and de-
ployment rates; disruption and global beneﬁts for-
gone. Energies, 10(12), p.2169.
[72] U.S. Energy Information Administration, (1985).
Nuclear Power Plant Construction Activity, 1984.
U.S. Department of Energy.
[73] Ganda, F., Hansen, J., Kim, T., Taiwo, T. and
Wigeland, R., (2016). Reactor capital costs break-
down and statistical analysis of historical us con-
struction costs. Argonne National Lab.(ANL), Ar-
gonne, IL (United States).
[74] Kavlak, G., McNerney, J. and Trancik, J.E., (2018).
Evaluating the causes of cost reduction in photo-
voltaic modules. Energy policy, 123, pp.700–710.
[75] Harstead, G.A., (1979). Component nuclear con-
tainment structure. US Patent 4,175,005.
[76] Conway, L.E. and Stewart, W.A., (1991). Passive
containment cooling system. US Patent 5,049,353.
[77] Vereb, F.T., Brown, W.L. and Johnson, F.T.,
(2015). Passive containment air cooling for nuclear
power plants. US Patent 9,177,675.
14
--- PAGE 15 ---
[78] Fluor Corporation, (2016). Basis of ”Estimate to
Complete”: Plant Vogtle Units 3 & 4, VC Summer
Units 2 & 3. Greenville, SC.
[79] Bechtel
Power
Corporation,
(2017).
Cost
and
Schedule
Assessment
for
the
Completion
of
Construction
for
Southern
Nuclear
Operat-
ing Company’s Vogtle Units 3 & 4.
Available
from:
http://www.psc.state.ga.us/factsv2/
Document.aspx?documentNumber=171748.
[80] Borcherding, J. and Sebastian, S., (1980).
Ma-
jor factors inﬂuencing craft productivity in nu-
clear power plant construction. Transactions of the
american association of cost engineers, pp.I.1.1 –
I.1.5.
[81] Varma, A.H., Malushte, S.R., Sener, K.C. and Lai,
Z., (2014).
Steel-plate composite (sc) walls for
safety related nuclear facilities: Design for in-plane
forces and out-of-plane moments. Nuclear engineer-
ing and design, 269, pp.240–249.
[82] (2018).
Phone interview.
David jones, southern
company.
[83] Komanoﬀ, C., (1981). Power plant cost escalation:
nuclear and coal capital costs, regulation, and eco-
nomics, vol. 12. Van Nostrand Reinhold Company.
[84] Deutch, J., Moniz, E., Ansolabehere, S., Driscoll,
M., Gray, P., Holdren, J., Joskow, P., Lester, R.
and Todreas, N., (2003).
The future of nuclear
power. an mit interdisciplinary study, http://web.
mit. edu/nuclearpower.
[85] Arrow, K.J., (1962). The economic implications of
learning by doing. The review of economic studies,
29(3), pp.155–173.
[86] Anzai, Y. and Simon, H.A., (1979).
The theory
of learning by doing. Psychological review, 86(2),
p.124.
[87] Commission,
U.N.R.,
(2018).
Back-
grounder
on
nrc
resident
inspectors
program.
Available
from:
https://www.nrc.gov/
reading-rm/doc-collections/fact-sheets/
resident-inspectors-bg.html.
[88] Commission, U.N.R., (2018).
Inspections, tests,
analyses, and acceptance criteria (itaac).
Avail-
able
from:
https://www.nrc.gov/reactors/
new-reactors/oversight/itaac.html.
[89] Paulson, C., (2002).
Westinghouse ap1000 ad-
vanced plant simpliﬁcation results, measures, and
beneﬁts. 10th international conference on nuclear
engineering. American Society of Mechanical Engi-
neers, pp.1065–1068.
[90] Tay, Y.W.D., Panda, B., Paul, S.C., Noor Mo-
hamed, N.A., Tan, M.J. and Leong, K.F., (2017).
3d printing trends in building and construction in-
dustry: a review. Virtual and physical prototyping,
12(3), pp.261–276.
[91] Keating, S.J., Leland, J.C., Cai, L. and Oxman,
N., (2017). Toward site-speciﬁc and self-suﬃcient
robotic fabrication on architectural scales. Science
robotics, 2(5), p.eaam8986.
[92] Salim, M. and Bernold, L.E., (1994).
Eﬀects of
design-integrated process planning on productivity
in rebar placement. Journal of construction engi-
neering and management, 120(4), pp.720–738.
[93] Development of non-proprietary ultra-high perfor-
mance concrete for use in the highway bridge sector,
(2017). U.S. Department of Transportation.
[94] Cost and ecological feasibility of using ultra- high
performance
concrete
in
highway
bridge
piers,
(2017). Nevada Department of Transportation.
[95] Devine, R., Kurama, Y.C., Thrall, A.P., San-
born, S.E., Van Liew, M., Barbachyn, S.M., Ducey,
M. and Sower, M., (2015).
Prefabricated high-
strength rebar systems with high-performance con-
crete for accelerated construction of nuclear con-
crete structures. Sandia National Lab.(SNL-NM),
Albuquerque, NM (United States).
[96] Use of high-strength reinforcement in earthquake-
resistant concrete structures, (2017). National In-
stitutes of Standards and Technology.
[97] Bridge design and drafting manual, (2017). Oregon
Department of Transportation.
[98] Rebak, R.B. and Lou, X., (2018). Environmental
cracking and irradiation resistant stainless steels by
additive manufacturing. General Electric Company
(GE), Schenectady, NY (United States).
[99] Sagar, A.D. and Zwaan, B. Van der, (2006). Tech-
nological innovation in the energy sector: R&d, de-
ployment, and learning-by-doing.
Energy policy,
34(17), pp.2601–2608.
[100] Schlaseman, C., (2004).
Application of advanced
construction technologies to new nuclear power
plants. Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
[101] Nemet, G.F., Baker, E. and Jenni, K.E., (2013).
Modeling the future costs of carbon capture using
experts’ elicited probabilities under policy scenar-
ios. Energy, 56, pp.218–228.
[102] Li, Y. and Taylor, T.R., (2014). Modeling the im-
pact of design rework on transportation infrastruc-
ture construction project performance. Journal of
15
--- PAGE 16 ---
construction engineering and management, 140(9),
p.04014044.
[103] Sveikauskas, L., Rowe, S., Mildenberger, J., Price,
J. and Young, A., (2014).
Measuring produc-
tivity growth in construction.
Monthly labor
review, u.s. bureau of labor statistics.
Avail-
able from:
https://doi.org/https://doi.org/
10.21916/mlr.2018.1.
[104] Portugal-Pereira, J., Ferreira, P., Cunha, J., Szklo,
A., Schaeﬀer, R. and Ara´ujo, M., (2018). Better late
than never, but never late is better: Risk assess-
ment of nuclear power construction projects. En-
ergy policy, 120, pp.158–166.
16
